Themes/causes present in the report:

1. Insufficient preparation for adverse weather conditions: The report highlights that the Seabourn Encore could have been better prepared for the weather event if the message from the pilot had reached the master. This lack of preparation increased the risk of harm to people and damage to property and the environment.

2. Failure of mooring equipment: The mooring ropes and shore bollards failed due to the increased load caused by the wind speed gusting to 45 knots. The report identifies that the bollards were not able to withstand the forces imparted on them by the ship's mooring lines, and the mooring ropes were rendered ineffective.

3. Ineffective mooring procedures: The report states that the mooring procedures contained in the port's SMS were not strictly adhered to. This lack of adherence to the procedures, including placing two stern lines on a single bollard, contributed to the failure of the mooring arrangement.

4. Unknown safe working loads of bollards: The report highlights that the port company had virtually no knowledge of the actual safe working loads of the mooring bollards on the wharf. This lack of knowledge made it impossible to determine whether the mooring plan for any ship was safe.

5. Inadequate response to high wind warning: The port's response to the high wind warning was rudimentary and did not automatically trigger the necessary support and resources for the ship. The report suggests that a more robust port response, including effective promulgation of weather information and ship-specific assessments, would improve the safety of vessels berthed at the port.

6. Lack of communication between pilot and ship's crew: The report highlights that the ship's crew did not act on the advance warning of the predicted increase in wind strength, as they were not informed by the duty pilot. Improved communication between the pilot and the ship's crew could have allowed for earlier measures to be taken to reduce the load on the mooring ropes and prevent the bollard failure.