"2018_205","[14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21]","5.0","Fatigue management is relevant as the freezerman was working alone in the early hours of the morning, a time known to adversely affect human performance (3.2, 3.5). However, there is no direct evidence that fatigue was a factor in the accident, and the report does not establish whether the freezerman was suffering from fatigue at the time of the accident (4.5). Therefore, the contribution of fatigue management to the accident is considered to be low.
","0.0","10.0","Human error and assumptions played a role as the freezerman did not follow the basic safety rules before reaching into the accumulator (3.8). The report suggests that the freezerman's decision-making abilities were likely impaired, which could have led to errors in judgment (4.4). However, the exact reasons for the freezerman's actions are not known, so the contribution of this theme is significant but not the primary cause.
","0.0","12.5","Training and competency are significant factors as the freezerman had been trained and signed off to work in the freezer area, including being permitted to enter the guarded area when required (3.4). However, the lack of machine-specific instructions for the accumulator's safe use indicates a gap in training specific to the equipment involved in the accident (3.17). This gap likely contributed to the accident by not providing the freezerman with adequate knowledge to safely manage the risks associated with the accumulator.
","3.536","12.5","Training and familiarity with equipment are closely related to training and competency. The report indicates that the freezerman was trained to work in the freezer area, but there were no machine-specific instructions for the accumulator (3.17). This lack of specific training may have contributed to the freezerman's decision to enter the guarded area without making the machinery safe, indicating a lack of familiarity with the specific risks of the accumulator.
","3.536","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to suggest that Crew Resource Management was a factor in the accident. The freezerman was working alone, and there were no witnesses or evidence of crew interaction contributing to the accident (3.2).
","0.0","20.0","Adherence to safety procedures is a major factor as the freezerman did not follow the procedure for clearing a blockage, which, if followed, would have very likely prevented the accident (3.19). Additionally, the gate between the weighing and packing station and the back of the accumulator was not fitted with an interlock, allowing the freezerman to enter the ring-fenced area without the machinery shutting down automatically (3.13).
","0.0","10.0","Organizational safety culture is implicated as the risks associated with the accumulator were not fully understood, and safety controls relied heavily on the machine operator following generic instructions and procedures (3.3). The lack of a strong safety culture may have contributed to the freezerman's decision to bypass safety procedures.
","0.0","12.5","Risk management and analysis were lacking as the hazards posed by the vertical movement of the accumulator floor and associated framework had not been identified and assessed (3.14). A separate risk assessment for the accumulator could have provided a more thorough understanding of the risks and identified engineering controls to reduce them (3.18).
","3.536","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to suggest that regulatory oversight and compliance were factors in the accident. The report does not mention any non-compliance with regulations that could have contributed to the accident.
","0.0","5.0","Situational awareness may have been a minor factor as the freezerman's decision-making abilities were likely impaired, which could have affected their situational awareness (4.4). However, the report does not provide specific evidence that a lack of situational awareness was a direct cause of the accident.
","0.0","0.0","Emergency response preparedness is not mentioned as a contributing factor in the accident. The report focuses on the events leading up to the accident rather than the response to it.
","0.0","0.0","Maintenance and inspection regimes are not mentioned as contributing factors in the accident. The report does not indicate that equipment failure due to poor maintenance or inspection was an issue.
","0.0","2.5","Use of automation is not directly implicated in the accident. The accumulator was operating in automatic mode, but the issue was not the automation itself but the freezerman's actions in entering the guarded area (3.6).
","3.536","0.0","Weather conditions and decision making are not relevant to the accident as it occurred indoors in a controlled environment, and the report does not mention weather as a factor.
","0.0","0.0","Communication breakdown is not mentioned as a contributing factor in the accident. The freezerman was working alone, and there is no evidence of communication issues leading to the accident (3.2).
","0.0","10.0","""Other"" includes the influence of impairment due to substance use, as the freezerman tested positive for methamphetamine, which could have affected their decision-making abilities (3.24, 3.27). This factor is not covered by the predefined safety themes but is a significant contributor to the accident.","0.0","true","N/A"
