"2013_002","[8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the incident in the provided document. The pilot was found to be appropriately qualified and licensed, and there is no indication that fatigue management was a factor (""The pilot, although not experienced, was appropriately qualified and licensed to fly the helicopter on passenger operations"" (4.1.1)).
","0.0","46.667","The most likely cause of the engine power loss was a malfunction of the engine's right magneto, which was likely caused by engine oil accumulating in the magneto because an oil slinger was omitted during a maintenance procedure (""The most likely cause of the engine power loss was a malfunction of the engine's right magneto. The malfunction was likely caused by engine oil accumulating in the magneto because an oil slinger was omitted during a maintenance procedure"" (5.1)). This omission is a clear example of human error. Additionally, the failure to perform mandatory service bulletins and inadequate inspection and maintenance of the imported second-hand engine and its accessories contributed to the incident (""The imported second-hand engine and its accessories had not been subjected to the inspections and maintenance required for continued airworthiness before they were released to service"" (5.2)).
","40.415","0.0","The document does not indicate that a lack of training or competency of the pilot or maintenance personnel directly contributed to the incident. The pilot was qualified and licensed, and there is no mention of training deficiencies related to the maintenance personnel (""The pilot, although not experienced, was appropriately qualified and licensed to fly the helicopter on passenger operations"" (4.1.1)).
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence in the document to suggest that a lack of training or familiarity with the helicopter or its equipment was a contributing factor to the incident. The pilot's response to the loss of engine power was appropriate (""The pilot responded appropriately to the helicopter losing power"" (4.1.1)).
","0.0","0.0","Crew Resource Management does not appear to be a factor in this incident as there is no mention of issues related to teamwork, communication, decision-making, or leadership skills in the provided document.
","0.0","6.667","The failure to adhere to safety procedures is evident in the omission of the oil slinger during maintenance and the failure to perform mandatory service bulletins (""The imported second-hand engine and its accessories had not been subjected to the inspections and maintenance required for continued airworthiness before they were released to service"" (5.2)). This lack of adherence to safety procedures contributed to the incident.
","5.774","6.667","The document suggests that the standards of maintenance and inspection for the import and eventual release to service of the helicopter engine did not meet the standards of aviation maintenance best practice, indicating issues with the organizational safety culture (""The standards of maintenance and inspection for the import and eventual release to service of this helicopter engine cannot be considered to have met the standards of aviation maintenance best practice"" (4.3.9)).
","5.774","0.0","There is no specific mention of risk management and analysis processes being a factor in the incident. The document focuses on the technical causes and maintenance issues rather than the broader risk management practices of the organization.
","0.0","10.0","The document indicates that the regulator's guidelines for inspecting used parts of unknown origin were not well defined, and the company's approved procedures developed from these guidelines were not adequate (""The regulator's guidelines for inspecting used parts of unknown origin were not well defined, and the company's approved procedures developed from these guidelines were not adequate in this case"" (5.3)). This suggests that issues with regulatory oversight and compliance played a role in the incident.
","0.0","0.0","There is no indication that situational awareness was a contributing factor to the incident. The pilot responded appropriately to the loss of engine power, which suggests that situational awareness was maintained (""The pilot responded appropriately to the helicopter losing power"" (4.1.1)).
","0.0","0.0","Emergency response preparedness does not appear to be a contributing factor to the incident, as the pilot was able to respond appropriately by entering autorotation and aiming for shallow waters (""The pilot responded appropriately to the helicopter losing power, and made the best of a potentially serious situation by immediately entering the helicopter into autorotation"" (4.1.1)).
","0.0","28.333","While maintenance and inspection regimes are mentioned as inadequate, the specific issue that led to the incident was the omission of the oil slinger during maintenance, which falls under the theme of Human Error and Assumptions. Therefore, this theme is not assigned a separate percentage.
","49.075","0.0","The use of automation is not mentioned as a contributing factor in the incident. The document focuses on mechanical and maintenance issues rather than automation-related concerns.
","0.0","0.0","Weather conditions and decision-making are not mentioned as factors in the incident. The document does not provide any information suggesting that weather played a role in the engine power loss or the pilot's decision-making process.
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence of communication breakdown contributing to the incident. The document does not mention any issues with communication among the crew, maintenance personnel, or other parties involved.
","0.0","1.667","There are no additional safety themes identified in the document that contributed to the accident outside of the predefined themes.","2.887","true","N/A"
