"2011_202","[8  9  10  11  12  13  14]","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to directly attribute the accident to fatigue management. The document does not mention fatigue as a contributing factor to the accident.","0.0","30.0","The grounding of the Monte Stello was primarily due to human error and assumptions. The bridge team deviated from the planned passage because ""the rudder was put to starboard instead of to port at a critical time when the ship was making the left-hand turn into Tory Channel"" (4.3.3). This error was not picked up in time to prevent the grounding because the procedures for checking and cross-checking every action, known as bridge resource management, were not being strictly followed (4.3.4). The master and helmsman did not engage with the principles of good BRM, leading to assumptions about each other's knowledge and actions (4.3.4).
","0.0","10.0","Training and competency played a role in the accident, as not all bridge team members had received formal BRM training (4.4.2). The master and third mate had formal training but did not wholly embrace the concept, while the other two members had only been exposed to some concepts (4.4.2). The lack of training and competency in BRM practices contributed to the failure to prevent the grounding.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to directly attribute the accident to a lack of training and familiarity with equipment. The document does not mention any issues with the crew's familiarity with the vessel's equipment as a contributing factor.
","0.0","25.0","The accident was significantly influenced by the failure in Crew Resource Management (CRM). The bridge team did not effectively use all available resources, including people, procedures, and equipment, to safeguard against accidents (4.2.2). The master did not discuss the plan with other bridge team members, assuming it was routine and they would be familiar with it (4.3.3). The pilot/co-pilot system was rendered ineffective when the co-pilot was unable to monitor the pilot's actions (4.3.6). The bridge team's lack of a shared mental model and closed-loop communication contributed to the failure to detect the wrong-way helm (4.3.7-4.3.9).
","0.0","20.0","The adherence to safety procedures was not maintained, as evidenced by the bridge team's failure to follow the procedures that could have prevented the error. The safety management system provided procedures like the pre-manoeuvre briefing, declaration of ""Red Zone"", pilot/co-pilot system, and closed-loop communication, which were not effectively utilized (4.3.10-4.3.15). The master's failure to routinely check that his orders were being correctly executed also indicates a lack of adherence to safety procedures (4.3.6).
","0.0","8.333","Organizational safety culture was a contributing factor, as the bridge team's actions reflected a lack of collective commitment to safety practices. The master's responsibility to ensure high standards of navigation and BRM was not fully realized (4.4.3). The accident voyage's bridge team had not sailed together before, and the helmsman was not a regular bridge team member, indicating a potential gap in the safety culture (4.4.2).
","2.887","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to directly attribute the accident to a failure in risk management and analysis. The document does not discuss any shortcomings in the identification, assessment, or mitigation of risks that directly contributed to the accident.
","0.0","1.667","Regulatory oversight and compliance were factors, as both internal and external audits had previously raised questions about the level of BRM training for bridge teams, including for existing junior officers and new crew (4.4.7). The Monte Stello had not been fully embedded into KiwiRail's safety management system and was only on a short-term charter, which may have affected compliance with safety standards (4.4.9).
","2.887","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to directly attribute the accident to a loss of situational awareness. The document focuses on the failure to follow procedures and human error rather than a lack of awareness of the environment.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to directly attribute the accident to emergency response preparedness. The focus of the document is on the factors leading to the grounding rather than the response to the emergency.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to directly attribute the accident to maintenance and inspection regimes. The document states that there was no evidence of a failure of any engineering control or propulsion systems, or of its navigation systems (4.1.2).
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to directly attribute the accident to the use of automation. The document does not mention any issues with automated systems contributing to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to directly attribute the accident to weather conditions and decision making. The document does not mention weather as a contributing factor to the accident.
","0.0","5.0","Communication breakdown was evident in the incident, as closed-loop communication was not consistently used. This failure in communication led to the master's helm order being misunderstood, and the error was not corrected in time to prevent the grounding (4.3.7-4.3.9). The bridge team members later admitted that closed-loop communication was not always used, especially in routine maneuvers (4.3.14).
","0.0","0.0","<NA>","0.0","true","N/A"
