 
 This report for inquiry 10-011 is suppressed  
 
until 10.00am on 28 March 2013  
 
Pursuant to its powers, including in sections 11, 14B(2) and 14K of the Transport 
Accident Investigation Commission Act 1990, the Transport Accident Investigation 
Commission directs that this report is provided to you in confidence and that its contents 
are supressed and must remain confidential until its public release at 10.00am on 28 
March 2013.  
 
Any illegitimate disclosure of this report and/or its contents before this publication time 
in contravention of the suppression order is an offence.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Inquiry 10 -011: Report into flying training safety in New Zealand  
 
 
 
 
1.1.1.1   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission is an independent Crown entity established to 
determine the circumstances and causes of accidents and incidents with a view to avoiding similar 
occurrences in the future.  Accordingly it is inappropriate that reports should be used to assign fault or 
blame or determine liability, since neither the investigation nor the reporting process has been 
undertaken for that purpose.  
 
The C ommission may make recommendations to improve transport safety.  The cost of implementing 
any recommendation must always be balanced against its benefits.  Such analysis is a matter for the 
regulator and the industry.  
 
These reports may be reprinted in who le or in part without charge, providing acknowledgement is 
made to the Transport Accident Investigation Commission.  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
Te Komihana Tirotiro Aitua Waka  
 
 
 
Inquiry  10-011 
Report into flying training safety  
in New Zealand  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Released March 2013  
  

Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
About the Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
The Transport Accident Investigation Commission  (the Commission)  is a standing commission of 
inquiry responsible for inquiring into maritime, aviation and rail accidents and incidents in New 
Zealand, a nd co -ordinating and co -operating with other accident investigation organisations overseas.  
Its principal purpose is to determine the circumstances and causes of occurrence s with a view to 
avoiding similar occurrences in the future rather than to ascribe blame.  The Commission carries out 
this purpose by informing members of the transport sector, both domestically and internationally, of 
the lessons that can be learnt from transport occurrences.   
 
Commissioners  
Chief Commissioner    John Marshall, QC  
Depu ty Chief Commissioner   Helen Cull, QC  
 
Key Commission personnel  
Chief Executive     Lois Hutchinson  
Chief Investigator of Accidents   Captain Tim Burfoot  
General Counsel    Rama Rewi  
Senior Research Analyst    Robert Spies  
Senior Researcher    Ken Quarrie  
 
 
Email   inquiries@taic.org.nz    
 
Web  www.taic.org.nz  
 
Telephone  +64 4 473 3112 (24 hrs) or 0800 188 926  
 
Fax  +64 4 499 1510  
 
Address   Level 16, 80 The  Terrace, PO Box 10 323, Wellington 6143, New Zealand   
 
 Important notes  
 
Nature of this report  
 
This inquiry report is the result of the Commission's inquiry into flying training safety in New Zealand.  
The Commission opened  this inquiry under section 8(2)(a) of the Transport Accident Investigation 
Commission Act 1990 after it became concerned that previous occurrences involving flying training 
(including a near mid -air collision in New Plymouth on 10 May 2010 and a mid -air c ollision near 
Feilding on 26 July 2010 ) might be symptomatic of systemic or widespread matters affecting flying 
training safety in New Zealand.   The purpose of this inquiry was to ascertain whether or not there were 
common factor s or trends  that may have  contributed to  the cause s of these previous occurrences . 
 
Ownership of report  
 
This report is the Commission's  intellectual property.  It may be reprinted in whole or in part without 
charge, provided that acknowledgement is made to the Commission.  
Acknowledgements  
The Commission is grateful to those individuals and organisations who prepared written submissions 
and those who appeared as witnesses.  Their contributions assisted the Commission considerably in 
its research .  
Contents  
 
Glossary and abbreviations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  ii 
1 Executive summary  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  1 
2 Scope of report  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  3 
3 Conduct of inquiry  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........................  5 
4 Flying  training safety performance in New Zealand  ................................ ................................ .... 7 
5 Issues applicable to flying training safety in New Zealand  ................................ .......................  15 
6 Data and research  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  32 
7 Findings  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  33 
8 Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  36 
9 References  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 37 
 
 
Report 10 -011 | Page i 
 Figures  
Figur e 1  Fatalities per 100 000 flying training hours flown, 2000 to 2011   
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data])  ................................ ................................ ..........................  7 
Figure 2   Fatal accidents per 100 000 flying hours flown, 2 000 to 2011   
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data])  ................................ ................................ ..........................  8 
Figure 3   Number of reported flying training mid -air collision and aircraft separation 
occurrences, 1993 to 2011 (CAA , n.d. [unpublished data])  ................................ ..........  9 
Figure 4   Reported fatal flying training mid -air collision accident rate, 1995 to 2011  
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data])  ................................ ................................ .......................  10 
Figur e 5   Reported flying training aircraft separation incident rate, 1995 to 2011   
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data])  ................................ ................................ .......................  11 
Figure 6   Flying training fatality rates by country, 1999 to 2009   
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data]; ATSB, 2010a; FAA, 1999; NTSB, n.d.)  ........................  13 
Figure 7   Private flying and flying training fatality rates, Australia 1999 to 2009  
(ATSB, 2010a)  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  14 
Figur e 8   Initial issue flight test failure rates, 2005 to 2012 (ASL, n.d.)  ................................ ... 16 
Figure 9   Number of possible collisions with increasi ng air traffic (ATSB, 1991)  ......................  18 
 
  
Page ii | Report 10 -011 Glossary and abbreviations   
 
ab-initio training  
 the very first stage of flight training . 
Advisory Circulars  
 most Civil Aviation Rule s are accompanied by Advisory Circulars  published  by 
the C ivil Aviation Authority , which provide explanatory information and 
examples of acceptable means of compliance with the Rules. 
 
Aerosafe  
 Aerosafe Risk Management  is an Australian -based aviation specialist 
company  that the Civil Aviation Authority  commissioned  in 2011 to complete 
an independent review of New Zealand's flight training industry . 
 
AIA Aviation Industry Association . 
 
Airways  Airways Corporation of New Zealand . 
ASL  Aviation Services Limited  holds a delegation from the Director of Civil Aviation 
to conduct flight crew  licence written examinations, including International 
Civil Aviation Organization  English language proficiency assessments.   Its 
parent company is ASPEQ Limited . 
 
ATSB  Australian Transport Safety Bureau . 
 
BASI  Bureau of Air Safety Investigation  (Australia) . 
 
CAA Civil Aviation Authority  of New Zealand . 
 
CAA's occurrence 
database  
 the CAA's database , which contains data about aviation occurrences in New 
Zealand  reported to the CAA . 
CA Rules  
 
CASA  Civil Aviation Rules . 
 
Civil Aviation Safety Authority (Australia) . 
 
EFTS  equivalent full-time student . 
FAA Federal Aviation Administration  (United States) . 
 
GAO United States General Accounting Office . 
ICAO  International Civil Aviation Organiz ation . 
MetFlight 
Commercial /MetJet  enhanced web-based aviation weather information service s owned by 
MetService and provided to commercial air transport operation  subscribers, 
including flight training organisations . 
 
MetFlight -GA an enhanced web -based aviation weather information service owned by 
MetService and provided to non-commercial pilots for pre -flight weather 
planning . 
 
NTSB  National Transportation Safety Board  (United States) . 
NZALPA  New Zealand Air Line Pilots ' Association . 
occurrence  
 an aviation accident or incident, as defined under section 2 of the Civil 
Aviation Act 1990 . 
 
Report 10 -011 | Page iii 
 TCAS  Traffic Collision Avoidance System .  TCAS  is an aircraft collision -avoidance 
system  that monitors the airspace around an aircraft for other aircraft 
equipped with corresponding active transponder s, and gives warning s of 
possible collision risks . 
 
TEC Tertiary Education Commission . 
 

 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 1 >>
 
 1 Executive summary  
New Zealand 's flying training sector  
1.1 The New Zealand flying training sector is diverse, with pilot training opportunities ranging from 
recreational qualifications to advanced professional qualifications such as the air transport 
pilot licence.  The sector has grown significantly in the past d ecade , from approximately 98  
000 total training hours in 2000 to approximately 133  000 hours in 20111 (although this total 
has fluctuated widely year  on year).  In 2011, 12% of these hours were for helicopter training , 
with the remainder being for fixed -wing aeroplane training (C ivil Aviation Authority  [CAA] , n.d. 
[unpublished data]).   
 
1.2 There is a wide spectrum of flight training organisations catering to both domestic and 
international students , ranging from large com mercial operators providing airline -structured 
ab-initio cadetships through to individual flying schools and aero clubs.  The larger training 
organisations tend to be concentrated in certain geographical areas , such as around 
Auckland, Hamilton, Manawatu a nd Christchurch.  The number of flying training 
establishments declined from 273 in 2000 to 174 in 2011 (CAA, n.d. [unpublished data]).   
 
1.3 Private sector providers deliver theory and practical flight training for the initial issue of flight 
crew licences a nd ratings .  Aviation Services Limited ( ASL) provides theory testing under a 
delegation from the Director of Civil Aviation , and approved flight examiners conduct flight 
tests.   
The Commission's inquiry into flying training safety in New Zealand  
1.4 In July 2 010 the Transport Accident Investigation Commission (the Commission) became 
concerned that systemic or widespread matters might be affecting flying training safety in New 
Zealand.  This concern arose after a number of fatal and near -fatal occurrences in New 
Zealand involving flying training, including a near mid-air collisi on overhead New Plymouth 
Aerodrome on 10 May 2010 and a mid -air collision near F eilding on 26  July 2010.    
 
1.5 After making initial inquiries into these 2 occurrences , the Commission  review ed previous 
occurrences involving flying training and analys ed occurrence data held by the CAA.  As a 
result of this preliminary work , the Commission opened an inquiry under  section 8(2)(a) of the 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission Act 1990  to ascertain whether or not there were 
common factors or trends  that may have contributed to the cause s of these previous 
occurrences.  
 
1.6 The first part of the Commission's inquiry  involved  it looking at whether flying training safety 
performance in New Zealand had improved or  deteriorated .  Occurrence data and research 
from the CAA and other overseas jurisdictions were  analysed to help examine this area of 
interest . 
 
1.7 The next part of its inquiry  involved the Commission looking at specific issues  relating to flying 
training safety in New Zealand , which were identified from written and oral submissions and 
from the Commission's  own e nquiries .  In examining each of these issues, the Commission 's 
primary objective was to determine  whether these issues were affecting, or could potentially 
affect , flyin g training sa fety in New Zealand in any way.  If yes, then to what extent?    
 
1.8 This report sets out the findings of the Commission's  research into each of these issues .  It 
draws on data and research from the CAA and overseas agencies .  It also draws on  
                                                           
1 Based on actual training hours flown reported to the Civil Aviation Authority  by flying training operators.  

<< Page 2 >>
 Report 10 -011 information from written and oral submissions that the Commission received as part of its  
public  consultation.  
1.9 The Commission's research findings are set out in Section 7.  One key finding is that based on 
a preliminary analysis of occurrence data, it is not possible  to conclude statistically whether 
flying training in New Zealand is less or more safe no w than it used to be.    
 
1.10 A recurring theme underpinning many of the findings  is the lack of data and research 
examining  factors that might have contribut ed to occurrences in flying training operations in 
New Zealand and overseas , and the limitations of the CAA's safety occurrence reporting 
system, which made it difficult for the Commission to analyse  flight training accident causal 
factors and safety trends  accurately .  The CAA is aw are of these limitations and  has advised 
that it  is "considering a range  of actions  associated with its underlying safety information  and 
data systems  … that should enable easier  submission and recording of safety information " 
(CAA, n.d.2 [unpublished data] ).   
 
1.11 The Commission's recommendations are set out in Section 8 .  In summary, it is recommend ed 
that the Director of Civil Aviation : 
 
(a) review the CAA's data systems and processes, particularly regarding flying training 
data, including the information collected and the way this information is collected, 
categorised, record ed in the CAA's occurrence database and analysed to ensure that 
meaningful and complete data on flying training in New Zealand is available ; 
 
(b) undertake and publish further quantitative research and causal analysis of flying 
training -related accidents and i ncidents held in the CAA's occurrence database to 
assess fully and identify any potential systemic safety issues, trends and risks, so that 
appropriate safety strategies can be adopted to improve safety performance within 
the New Zealand flying training system ; 
 
(c) take all appropriate steps to ensure that information about flight instructor 
demographics (e.g. qualifications, experience levels, age) and flight instructor 
performance and competency levels is regularly collected, categorised and recorded  
in a way that will enable it to be analysed  meaningfully ; 
 
(d) complete , as a matter of priority, the tasks that the CAA is required to do to progress 
the proposed amendments to CA Rule Part 141 (Aviation Training Organisations - 
Certification) and to CA Rule Part 61 (Pilot Licences and Ratings) .   
 
  
                                                           
2 n.d. = no date of publication available or applicable.  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 3 >>
 
 2 Scope  of report  
Scope of this report  
2.1 This report focuses on flying training in New Zealand involving aeroplane and helicopter 
aircraft .  Data and research examined  as part of the Commission's review  of flying training 
safety , and discussed in this report , include:  
 
(a) occurrence data held by the CAA and overseas agencies ; 
 
(b) investigation reports and research literature published by the CAA and overseas 
agencies ; 
 
(c) inquiry  reports published by the Commission ; 
 
(d) information provided by organisations in response to requests from the Commission ; 
 
(e) written and verbal submissions made to the Commission as part of its research ; 
  
(f) information and research held in the public domain about the flying training sector.  
 
2.2 For the purposes of this report, "flying training" generally means flying under instruction from 
an appropriately licensed  and rated flight instructor or flight examiner that is being conducted 
for the issue or the renewal of a licence or rating.  Flying training includes all approved and 
supervised solo training, including solo navigation exercises conducted as part of the training.   
 
2.3 This report focuses  on solo and dual flight instructional activity undertaken by a student or 
trainee pilot as part of the ir training towards a private or commercial pilot licence .  It does not 
examine  flying training involving agricultural flying and adventure and sports aviation such as 
gliding, parachuting, hot air ballooning, paragliding, hang gliding and microlight  operations.  
Nor does it examine p ilot training towards advanced qualifications such as the airline 
transport pilot licence , instrument ratings, or aircraft type endorsements and recurrent 
training.  
Caveats  
2.4 This report is subject to the following caveat s: 
 
(a) the data sourced from  the CAA  and other agencies  involve d a relatively small data 
sample.  Any quantitative analysis based on this data, therefore, must be done  with 
care.  Although broad differences between periods can be established, any detailed 
analysis of changes in rates over time is difficult to make ; 
 
(b) unless otherwise stated, occurrence statistics are based on data derived from the 
CAA's Mandatory O ccurrence  Information System ; 
 
(c) the Commission 's inquiry  into flying training in New Zealand involved a high -level 
descriptive analysis of selected data and research to try to gauge whether potential 
safety issues regarding flying training were valid and, i f so, to what extent.  A 
significant amount of data and research came from published material , mostly 
international .  Other  data was requested from relevant organisations such as the CAA, 
ASL, the Tertiary Education Commission  (TEC)  and Airways  Corporation of New 
Zealand (Airways) ; 
 

<< Page 4 >>
 Report 10 -011 (d) the Commission focused on a selected  range  of aviation safety performance 
indicators (for example, flying training fatalities and fatal accidents) for the purposes 
of this report .  This select range, plus the limited  occurrence data and research 
available,  made it difficult for the Commission to gain a complete picture of trends in 
flying training safety .  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 5 >>
 
 3 Conduct of inquiry  
Inquiries into flying  training occurrences   
3.1 The Commission and the CAA have separately investigated a number of fatal and non -fatal 
flying training occurrences  in recent years.   These have include:  
 
(a) an "impact with terrain accident" in the Ruahine Ranges on 12 July 2010 , involving a 
commercial pilot licence flight test where the instructor and student pilot were both 
seriously injured ; 
 
(b) a mid -air collision near Paraparaumu Aerodrome on 17 February 2008 , between a 
light aeroplane flown by a student pilot and a light helico pter with an instructor and 
student pilot on board .  All three pilots were killed;  
 
(c) an "impact with terrain accident" near Cass Saddle on 16 January 2008 , involving a 
cross -country training flight , where the 2 trainee pil ots on board were killed ; 
 
(d) an "impact with terrain accident" in the Urewera  Ranges  on 26 October 2007 , where 
the instructor was killed and the student pilot was seriously injured after the ir aircraft 
struck the ground .   
 
3.2 These investigations highlighted a range of safety issues , including  loss of pilot and air traffic 
controller situational awareness,  pilot failure  to maintain an effective visual lookout, and 
insufficient training for flying in mountainous terrain .  In response  to these safety issues , the 
Commission has made findings and issued recommendations to various parties , including to 
the Director of Civil Aviation , to minimise the risk to public safety .   
 
3.3 On 10 May 2010 a helicopter and a light aeroplane almost  collided overhead New Plymouth 
Aerodrome.  Each aircraft had an instructor and student pilot on board.  The aeroplane 
student pilot was preparing for a private pilot licence flight test and the helicopter student 
pilot had yet to have his first solo flight . 
 
3.4 Both aircraft were being operat ed under visua l flight rules and the pilots act ed in accordance 
with their respective air traffic control clearances.  The aeroplane descended from overhead 
using the standard circuit joining procedure for a left -hand circuit for the runway.  The 
helicopter was operatin g above the normal circuit altitude in a right -hand circuit for the same 
runway.  The aeroplane descended through the downwind leg of the helicopter's circuit.  
 
3.5 The Commission found that air traffic control had not properly manage d the increased risk of 
collision presented by the aeroplane's descending circuit altitude.  It also found that the 
incident would not have occurred had the instructor or student pilot of the aeroplane stopped 
their descent after losing sight of the helicopter (Transport Accident I nvestigation Commission 
[TAIC] , 2011 a). 
 
3.6 About 11 weeks later (on 26 July 2010) , 2 training aeroplanes collided near Feilding .  An 
instructor and a pilot student were on one of the a eroplanes , which crashed , killing both 
occupants .  The solo student pilot of the other  aeroplane  successfully landed the aeroplane at 
the nearby aerodrome and was uninjured .  The Commission immediately opened an  inquiry 
after being informed of this accident  (TAIC, 201 2).  
Examination of flying  training safety  in New Zealand  
3.7 As a result of these previous  occurrences  involving flying  training , particularly the New 
Plymouth and F eilding occurrences in 2010 , the Commission became concerned that 
systemic or widespread matters might  be affecting flying training safety.  It therefore opened 

<< Page 6 >>
 Report 10 -011 an inquiry under section 8(2)(a) of the Transport Accident Investigation Commission Act 1990 
to ascertain whether or not there were common factors or trends  that may have contributed to  
the cause s of these previous occurrences.   This inquiry  involved the Commission looking at 
whether flying training safety performance had deteriorated, as well as examining specific 
issues identified from written and oral public submissions , and from the Commission's own 
enquiries.    
 
3.8 In November 2010 the Commission invited public submissions.  In total, 54 written 
submissions were received  - 34 from private individuals and 20 from organisations and 
clubs, mostly from the aviation sector.  Some submissions raised issues outside the scope of 
the Commission's inquiry, including, for example, the noise levels around aerodr omes.  
Notwithstanding these, the Commission fully considered all submissions, many of which 
raised common themes and issues.  These included : 
 
(a) the standard of flying training in New Zealand ; 
 
(b) the effect s of increasing air traffic ; 
 
(c) the level of  English language proficiency ; 
 
(d) radiotelephony communications ; 
 
(e) the failure of pilots to maintain situational awareness  and to exercise effective see-
and-avoid ; 
 
(f) the government funding structure for pilot  training in New Zealand ; 
 
(g) access to weather  information ; 
 
(h) the flying training  regulatory system.  
 
3.9 These i ssues are discus sed in Section 5 of this report .  In examining each of these issues, the 
Commission 's primary objective was  to determine  whether these issues were affecting, or 
could potentially affect, flying training sa fety in New Zealand .  If yes, then to what extent ? 
 
3.10 In addition to  calling for submissions , the Commission's investigator -in-charge of the F eilding 
inquiry met with representatives from the CAA, ASL, the Aviation Industry Association  (AIA), the 
TEC, the New Zealand Qualifications Authority, the Royal New Zealand Aero Club, Air Nelson 
and Eagle Airways to obtain their comments about flying traini ng safety in New Zealand .  The 
key themes arising from these meetings were similar to those raised in the written 
submissions.  
 
3.11 In October 2011 Commissioners held a hearing to examine  in more detail  the key  issues  
identified during its enquiries  to date .  This hearing comprised 3 separate meetings with the 
CAA, the TEC and the AIA.  The AIA was represented by its Chief Executive and representatives  
from CTC Aviation Training, Ardmore Flying School, Air Hawke 's Bay Limited, Air Manawatu, 
Nelso n Aviation College, Mainland Aviation  College  and Nelson Marlborough Institute of 
Technology .  The main themes from these meetings are include d in the discussion in Section 
5 of this report . 
 
3.12 The Commission also reviewed an extensive range of published material from a range of 
sources, including the CAA, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau ( ATSB ), the Bureau 
d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile  the Federal Aviation 
Administration ( FAA) and the National Transportatio n Safety Board (NTSB).  It also  requested 
data from the CAA, ASL, the TEC and Airways.  
 
  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 7 >>
 
 4 Flying training  safety performance in New Zealand  
4.1 The comments received by the Commission as part of its inquiry into flying training safety in 
New Zealand indicated a general  view among submitters based on anecdotal evidence  that 
flying training in New Zealand is less safe than it used to be.  The Commission sought to test 
this view  by examining relevant statistics on flying training  occurrences .  In doing this , it asked 
3 questions:  
 
(a) is flying training in New Zealand less safe  than it used to be?  
 
(b) how safe is flying training in New Zealand compared with other countries?  
 
(c) how safe is flying training compared with other aviation activities?  
 
Is flying training in New Zealand less safe  than it used to be?  
 
Fatality rate for flying training  
 
4.2 Figure 1 shows the annual rate of flying training fatalities in New Zealand between 2000 and 
2011.  The highest rate was in 2010 when 2.6 fatalities occurred per 100  000 flying training 
hours flown.  Between 2000 and 2002 , and 2004 and 2005 , the fatality rate was zero, while  
in the remaining years the rate ranged  from 0.5 to 2. 2 fatalities per 100  000 hours.  
 
4.3 Overall, the rate gradually trended upwards , with flying training recording an average of 0.9 
fatalities per 100  000 hours flo wn annually.  In total, there were 1 6 fatalities during the 
period, with an average of 1.6 deaths  per fatal accident.  
 
  
Fatal accident rate for flying training  
 
4.4 Figure 2 shows  the annual fatal accident  rate for flying training between 2000 and 201 1.  It 
shows a similar pattern  to that in Figure 1 , with the highest annual fatal accident rate 
occurring  in 200 3 with 2.2 fatal accidents  per 100  000 hours flow n.  Between  2000  and 
2002 , and 2004 and 2005, the annual fatal accident rate was zero.   Although there was 0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011Rate per 100,000 hours flown  
Year  
Fatalities (flying training)
Figure 1 
Fatalities per 100 000 flying training hours flown, 2000 to 2011  
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data])  

<< Page 8 >>
 Report 10 -011 some variability  between 2000 and 2011, overall the rate slowly trended upwards , with t he 
annual average rate of fatal accidents being 0.6 per 100  000 hours flown.  
 
4.5 Overall , there were 10 fatal flying training  accidents3 between 2000 and 201 1 involving 4 
helicopters and 9 aeroplanes (i.e. 3 accident s in 2003, one in 2006, one in 2007, one in 
2008, one in 2009, 2 in 2010  and one in 2011 ).  The fatal accidents involved  7 solo training 
flights , 5 dual instruction  flights, and one flight test4.   
 
4.6 In the preceding period 1988 -1999 , there were 4 training accidents with 4 fatalities 
compared with 10 accidents with 1 6 fatalities between 2000  and 2011.  Although  there was 
an increase  during 2000 -2011 in the number of fatal accident s and fatalities, the 
Commission could not determine  if a significant long-term trend had start ed to develop.  
 
Flying training occurrences  
 
4.7 The rate of reported occurrences  for flying trainin g steadily increased from 80  per 100  000 
hours flown in 2000 to 20 0 reported occurrences per 100  000 hours flown in 2010  (Aerosafe  
Risk Management [Aerosafe] , 2011) .  This increase must be viewed with care as it  may reflect 
a growth in flying training activity and an improvement in the reporting culture s of aviation 
participants , rather than a decline in the overall safety performance  for the flying training 
sector. 
 
4.8 The Commission reviewed controlled airspace incidents involving training aircraft that were 
reported to the CAA by Airways between 2000 and 2012  (Airways, 2011  [unpublished data] ).  
This data showed a substantial increase in the number of incidents reported between 2009 (6 
incidents) and 2010 (73 incidents).  Data for 2011 exhibited a continual rise , with 135 
incidents reported .  The  initial data for the first quarter of 2012 show ed 66 reported incidents.  
These figures suggest that controlled airspace incidents are becoming a significant proportion 
of total flying training airspace incidents , with the majority occurring around Hamilton  where 
                                                           
3 A mid-air collision  is counted as one accident.  
4 Care should be exercised when viewing the data in Figures 1 and 2.  The annual fatality and fatal accident rates between 2000  and 
2011 are based on very small numbers, with 5 of those years recording a rate of zero.  Although broad differences between periods 
may be observed from these rates, any significant safety trends would be difficult to see, particularly as the small numbers cause  the 
rates to be very volatile and to change substantially from year  to year.   
 00.511.522.5
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011Rate per 100,000 hours flown  
Year  
Fatal accidents (flying training)
Figure 2  
Fatal accidents per 100 000 flying hours flown, 2000 to 2011  
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data])  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 9 >>
 
 flying training activity is heavily conc entrated .  Further data, research and causal analysis 
would help to determine if this is a developing safety issue (it is possible, for example, that the 
observed increase may be the result of a stronger reporting practice by Airways).  
 
4.9 In terms of all incident types reported to the CAA, according to  Aerosafe (2011 ), the number of 
uncontrolled and controlled airspace -related incidents5 attributable to flying training had 
significantly increased.  For example, there was a noticeable rise from 2006 onwards , while 
other incident types remained relatively constant in the period.  Generally, there had been a 
long-term upward trend in all airspace incident rates attributable to pilots and air traffic 
service s (CAA, 2011 a). 
 
4.10 Aerosafe's  (2011) research also found that airspace incidents had accounted for 55% of solo 
training occurrences and 30% of dual training  occurrences .  Further analysis indicated that 
"unauthorised airspace incursion" followed by "breach of other clearance" were the most 
frequently recor ded airspace incidents for flying training.  Aerosafe also  noted that this could 
have been due to the training schools being located in areas of high air traffic and increased 
flying training in controlled airspace.   The recent large -scale expansion of fly ing training at 
Hamilton is a good example.   Equally, controlled aerodromes  would be less tolerant of 
breaches than uncontrolled aerodromes  
 
Flying training mid-air collisions   
 
4.11 Figure 3 shows the number of reported flying training mid -air collision6 and aircraft separation  
occurrences7 in New Zealand between 1993 and 2011 involv ing at least one aircraft 
conducting either solo or dual training (including flight tests).   
 
 
                                                           
5 An airspace -related incident mean s an incident involving a deviation from, or shortcomings of, the procedures or rules for avoiding a 
collision between aircraft or avoiding a collision between aircraft and other obstacles when an aircraft is being provided with an air 
traffic service.  
 
6  A mid -air collision occurrence  is where at least 2 aircraft come in  to contact with each other while both are airborne.   
 
7 An aircraft separation occurrence  is either a "near collision " or a "loss of separation ", as reported on the CAA's Occurrence Report  
(Form CA005) and is classed as an airspace incident.  Advisory Circular AC12 -1 describes a near collision as a "serious incident 
requir ing an avoidance manoeuvre to avoid a collision or an unsafe situation or when an avoidance action would have been 
appropriate ". 1 1 1 2 6 
3 6 
3 8 8 
7 
3 8 
9 11 
8 10 13 
01234567891011121314Number of occurrences  
Year  Aircraft separation occurrences
Mid-air collision occurrences
Figure 3  
Number of reported flying training mid -air collision and aircraft separation occurrences, 1993 to 2011 
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data])  

<< Page 10 >>
 Report 10 -011  
4.12 In particular, Figure 3 shows 3 fatal flying training mid-air collision accidents  between 2006 
and 2 0108.  Thes e mid-air collision accidents accounted for about  2% of all flying training 
accidents between 2000 and 2010 , but approximately 33 % of all fatal accidents involving 
flying training aircraft.  In the same period, 50% of the dual and 57 % of the solo flights that 
were involved in flying training fatal accidents  were mid -air collisions .  
 
4.13 The average mid-air collision frequency rate for all loc ations from 1993 to 2011 was 0.2  
collisions per annum, with an average of 2.3 fatalities per collision (or 1.2 fatalities per 
training flight involved ), resulting in an average fatality rate of 0.4  per annum.   The number of 
hours flown per collision  for flying training aircraft  in the period 1995 -2011  was 361 883 
hours .   
 
4.14 Figure 4 shows the annual fatal mid-air collision accident rate for flying training between 
19959 and 2011 , with an average annual rate of 0.1 per 100  000 hours flown.   Although 
there appears to have been a marked increase in flying training mid-air collisions from 2006  
onwards , the elevated rate is due to the relatively quick succession of 3 mid-air collisions 
between 2006 and 2010 .  CAA records indicate that during the preceding 13 -year period, 
there had been no reported flying training mid-air collisions .  The Commission coul d not 
identify any systemic issues to account for this trend.  
 
 
Figure 4  
Reported fatal flying training mid -air collision accident rate, 1995 to 2011  
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data])  
4.15 The very low frequency of flying training mid-air collisions does not enable reliable  conclusions 
to be drawn about any future long -term safety trend.   Nor does the actual mid-air collision 
data provide a reliable overall indication of the mid-air collision  risk associated with flying 
training in New Zealand.  A meaningful comparison of mid-air collision rates with other types 
of general aviation activity in New Zealand , to assess any potential increase or decrease in 
flying training mid-air collision risk over time , was not cons idered feasible owing  to the very 
small number of occurrences  that would be expected .  
 
4.16 The Ambidji Group (2009) experienced the same issue when analysing mid-air collision  data in 
Australia , noting that "the small number of accidents means that any statistical trend analysis 
                                                           
8 These took place in Shannon (20 06), Paraparaumu (2008) and Fei lding (2010).  
9 Total flying training hours flown not available for 1993 and 1994.  0.00.20.40.60.81.01.2Rate per 100,000 hours flown  
Year  
Reported fatal mid-air collision accidents (flying training)
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 11 >>
 
 should be treated with caution as 'runs ' of two or three accidents in a short period could be 
due to statistical bunching or 'random chance ', rather than an accurate prediction of an 
increase in long term accident rates ". 
 
Flying training aircraft separation incidents  
 
 
4.17 Figure 3 above  shows that 105 aircraft separation  incidents  (reported as either near collision s 
or a loss of separation)  occurred between 1993 and 2011 , involving  at least one flying 
training aircraft where the safety of both aircraft may have been compromised.  
 
4.18 On average, there were 5.5 aircraft separation  incidents  per annum from 1993 to 2011, with 
near collisions accounting for 48% and  a loss of separation for 52% of incidents .  As a 
proportion of total flying training reported airspace incidents  in 2010 , aircraft separation  
incidents  accounted for approximately 8%.   
 
4.19 Figure 5 shows that since 1995 there has been a sustained  upwards trend in the rate of 
aircraft separation incidents  recorded each year involving flying training aircraft.  For example, 
the rate of reported incidents increased from zero in 1995 /96 to a peak of 9.8  per 100  000 
hours flown in 2011.  Notably, there was a wide fluctuation in the trend from year  to year.  The 
average flying training annual aircraft separation incident  rate was 4.6 per 100 000 hours 
flown between 1995 and 2011.  
    
4.20 It was difficult to determine if the increasing rate of reported aircraft separation  incidents 
represented a positive or negative outcome for flying training safety.  When analysing the data 
and considering overseas studies, the following was found:  
 
(a) a flying training aircraft involved in a n aircraft separation incident  did not 
necessarily mean that the pilot of that aircraft or the other conflicting aircraft had 
done something wrong.  In several incidents , for example, it was apparent that 
actions by air traffic controllers were a contributing factor ; 
 0.001.002.003.004.005.006.007.008.009.0010.00Rate per 100,000 hours flown  
Year  
Reported aircraft separation incidents (flying training)
Figure 5  
Reported flying training aircraft separation incident rate, 1995 to 2011  
(CAA, n.d. [unpublished data])  

<< Page 12 >>
 Report 10 -011 (b) it was not possible to assess from the CAA data the extent to which the incidents  
involved training -aircraft -to-training -aircraft conflicts.  As such , the incr easing trend 
may not necessarily  be training specific but  could  involve other forms of aviation ; 
 
(c) the significant increase in the number of reported aircraft separation incidents  
could have been due to an improved awareness of and a greater willingness by the 
aviation industry to report, particularly in the aftermath of a mid-air collision.  For 
example, the FAA observed that near mid-air collision reports could be influenced 
by factors not ea sily quantified, including the "heightened awareness caused by 
the recency and notoriety of aviation accidents and pilots' interest in filing NMAC 
[near mid -air collision] reports " (United States General Accounting Office  [GAO] , 
1989) , and that  following a serious mid-air collision or near collision  reporting 
tended to increase, sometimes substantially, but then decline over time to near 
previous levels.  Similar reporting behaviour has been seen in regard to other 
incident categories; for example, fire, smoke and fume events following the 
Swissair M D-11 accident off Nova Scotia in 1998.  Accordingly, the rise in aircraft 
separation incidents  observed since  2006 could have been partly attributable to 
the 3 mid-air collisions in 2006, 2008 and 2010, all of which attracted media and 
industry attention ; 
 
(d) a pilot-filed aircraft separation  report  is effectively a written account of a pilot 's 
perception that, when airborne, "another aircraft came dangerously close and a 
potential for collision existed " (GAO, 1989).  The ATSB ( 2012)  has noted that 
aircraft separation  incident report s from general aviation pilots "are not clear on 
'how close' the aircraft got, and it is difficult to determine what the likeli hood of a 
mid-air collision was ". 
 
Conclusion  
 
4.21 Based on a preliminary analysis of the occurrence data above , it is not possible to conclude 
statistically that flying training in New Zealand is less safe now than it used to be.  Although 
the rates of fatalit y and fatal accident have steadily  increased over time, the actual number of 
fatal accidents is very low (from zero to 3 per annum) .  With such low numbers, caution needs 
to be exercised in drawing statistical conclusions  as to whether there has been any significant 
underlying change in the rates of fatalit y or fatal accident .  As numbers have fluctuated during  
the reported period, it is difficult to discern any long -term safety trends for flying training.  
 
How safe is flying training in New Zealand compared with other countries?  
 
4.22 Time and resources meant that the Commission could not undertake an extensive 
comparable analysis of flying training safety performance indicators from multiple overseas 
jurisdictions.  Accordingly, the Commission limited its research to data from the ATSB  in 
Australia  and the NTSB  and the FAA in the United States.  This data indicates that the overall 
rates of flying training fatalit y and fatal accident in New Zealand are broadly comparable with 
the rates found in Australia and the United States for the pe riod 1999 -2009.  
 
4.23 For example, Figure 6 shows New Zealand's fatality rate for flying training in the period 1999 -
2009 against those of Australia and the United States.  Error bars show the year -to-year 
fluctuation s in the rate.  Because New Zealand has a much smaller flying training industry 
than Australia and the United States, its rate of fatalities is much more affected by random 
fluctuation.  Its error bar therefore has a wider span.  
 
4.24 Figure 6 also indicates that flyin g training in New Zealand is probably just as safe as  it is in 
Australia and the United States.  Although the variability in the rate of fatalities in New 
Zealand is much greater than  in Australia and the United States because the flying training 
industry is smaller, the overall fatality rates for all 3 countries for the 1999 -2009 period 
appear to be broadly similar . 
 
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 13 >>
 
  
Figure 6  
Flying training fatality rates by country, 1999 to 2009  
(CAA, n.d.  [unpublished data]; ATSB, 2010a; FAA, 1999; NTSB, n.d.)  
How safe is f lying training compar ed with other aviation activities ? 
4.25 Data and r esearch reviewed by the Commission indicate that in comparison with other modes 
of aviation, flying training is generally one of the safest forms of flying  activity .  This was 
confirmed by CAA (2005) research, which compared fatal fixed -wing accident rates for 
different operational groups in New Zealand between 1995 and 2004.  This research showed 
that flying traini ng (solo and dual) was on average safer  than any other form of flying and that 
it produced  relatively few accidents compared with other types of operation.  This was possibly 
due to  training taking  place in controlled environment s, with attention to safety  procedures, 
and sometimes with instructor s creating safe learning environment s for the student s.   
 
4.26 More recent data, as shown in Figure 7, also suggests that flying training is much safer than 
other forms of flying in Australia .  Between 1999 and 2009 there were 28.7 fatalities per 
million flight hours for private flying compared with 4.2 fatalities per million flight hours for 
flight training.   0123456789
New Zealand Australia USAFatalities per million  hours flown  

<< Page 14 >>
 Report 10 -011  
Figure 7  
Private flying and flying training fatality rates, Australia 1999 to 2009 (ATSB, 2010a)  
Findings  
1. Based on a preliminary analysis of occurrence data, it is not possible to conclude  statistically  
whether flying training in New Zealand is less or more safe now than it used to be.   
2. The rate of fatalities changes from year to year much more in New Zealand than it does in 
other countries , because the flying training industry is smaller.  Overseas d ata, however, 
indicates that the overall rate of flying training fatalities and fatal accidents in New Zealand is 
broadly com parable with the rates found in Australia and the United States for the period 
1999 -2009.  
3. Research and data from the CAA and the ATSB indicate that flying training is likely to be safer 
than  other forms of flying.  
 
  

 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 15 >>
 
 5 Issues applicable to flying training safety  in New Zealand  
Introduction  
5.1 Enquiries made by the Commission and written and oral submissions received from interested 
persons identified several aspects of the New Zealand flying training system and flying in 
general that could be affectin g safety .  The following discussion  looks at each of th ese aspects  
in turn , drawing on  comments from submitters, where appropriate , to highlight particular 
issue s.  In examining each of these issues, the Commission's primary objective was to 
determine whether these issues are affecting, or could potentially affect, flying training safety 
in New Zealand in any way  (as suggested by submitters or anecdotal ly).  If yes, then to what 
extent?   
Standard of flying training in New Zealand  
5.2 The Commission received considerable and varied  feedback about the overall standard of 
flying instruction in New Zealand , with some submitters  (mostly training organisations)  
commending the quality of training , and others (mostly individuals) expressing concern s about 
a range of aspects of flying training , including  the low experience levels of flight instructors 
and the difference s between flight schools regarding the quality of training , the method of 
teaching and the material taught.  
 
5.3 Unquestionably, t he quality of flying instruction is fundamental to the long -term safety 
performance of aviation.  A multitude of factors acting in combination influence the correct 
knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviours acquired during flight training  to ensure that  pilots 
operate safely and exhibit good airmanship.  The quality of the training given to flight 
instructors and flight examiners is just as important.  
 
5.4 The Commission  did not find  any specific research examining  the quality of the flight  training 
system in N ew Zealand .  If research in this area were to be conducted, a closer analysis of the 
results of flight tests and written examinations  would be useful  to determine if there is a link 
between examination performance and the frequency and severity of occurr ences during and 
after training .  This was recommended by Aerosafe  (2011) , which noted that this type of 
analysis might  "reveal a trend between student  pilot performance in examinations and 
performance in the air, during and post training ".  Such an exercise might also help to identify 
any weaknesses in certain areas of the training syllabus , such as theory, knowledge and 
practical airmanship.  This, in turn, might provide  a general indicator of training standards and 
performance in New Zealand .   
 
5.5 Although the Commission did not examine this matter in any detail, it did receive data from 
ASL (ASL, 21 February 2011)  showing  the 2010 pass rate s for the private pilot licence  written 
exam (75% ), the commercial pilot licence  exam  (71%) and the airline transport pilot licence  
exam  (78%) .  These  pass rates were similar to those in Australia  (Civil Aviation Safety Authority  
[CASA] , 201 1).   
 

<< Page 16 >>
 Report 10 -011 5.6 The Commission also looked at  published data from ASL showing the quarterly initial issue 
flight test results since 2005 for commercial pilot licences (aeroplane and helicopter) and for 
Category B and C Flight Instructor Ratings (aeroplane only)  (ASL, n.d. ).  These appear in Figure 
8, and show that t he fail rates for each  group  were  generally constant between 2005 and 
2012 (to date).  The  average quarterly fail rate for the commercial pilot licence (aeroplane) 
was 32% , and for the commercial pilot licence (helicopter)  it was 24%.  The average quarterly 
fail rate for Category B instructors was 21% , and for Category C  instructors it was 26% .  In 
comparison,  in 2010 the fail rate for the initial issue of Flight Instructor Ratings  tests 
(aeroplane and helicopte r) in Australia was approximately 24 % (CASA, 2010) .  
 
5.7 At a high level, the information  in Figure 8 indicates that there  has been a consistent  standard 
of pilot training achieved in New Zealand , but an ongoing  analysis  is required to identify  
opportunities to improve student pilots' pass/fail rate performance.  For example, the more 
recent rise in the fail rate for commercial helicopter pilot licences would warrant monitoring.    
 
5.8 Overall, the Commission did not find any evidence of significant gaps with the flying  training 
programme.  This is not to say that gaps (significant or otherwise) do not exist.  It simply 
means that the Commission did not find any evidence of this.   
 
5.9 The Commission also  requested data from the CAA , including information  about flight 
instructor demographics (e.g. qualifications, experience levels, age)  and flight instructor 
performance and competency levels .  However, this  information was either not available  (i.e. 
because the CAA did not collect it) or not easily accessible (i.e. because of the way the 
information had been recorded in the CAA's databas e).  This lack of basic information  is 
concerning.  General information of this nature  is important and should be collected and 
analysed as a matter of practice.  The CAA, as the regulator, seems the most  appropriate 
agency to do  this. 
  05101520253035404550
Mar-05
Jun-05
Sep-05
Dec-05
Mar-06
Jun-06
Sep-06
Dec-06
Mar-07
Jun-07
Sep-07
Dec-07
Mar-08
Jun-08
Sep-08
Dec-08
Mar-09
Jun-09
Sep-09
Dec-09
Mar-10
Jun-10
Sep-10
Dec-10
Mar-11
Jun-11
Sep-11
Dec-11
Mar-12% Fail Rate  
Category C Flight Instrutor Rating (Aeoplane) Category B Flight Instructor Rating (Aeroplane)
Commercial Pilot Licence (Aeroplane) Commercial Pilot Licence (Helicopter)
Figure 8  
Initial issue flight test failure rates, 2005 to 2012 (ASL, n.d.)  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 17 >>
 
 Findings  
4. The Commission was unable to conclude whether the standard of fl ight training in New 
Zealand present s risks to flight training safety.  It did not find any specific research examining 
the quality of the flight training system in New Zealand  or any evidence of significant gaps 
with the flying training programme.  This is not to say that gaps (significant or otherwise) do 
not exist.  It simply means that the Commission did not find any evidence of this.  
5. General information about flight instruc tor demographics  (e.g. qualifications, experience 
levels, age) , performance and competency levels is difficult to obtain, with no one agency 
responsible for collecting this.  This data gap should be addressed .  
 
Effect s of increas ing air traffic  
 
5.10 A common issue identified by a number of submitters was the increase in student pilot 
numbers and air traffic in the past 10 years, and how this might be contributing to flying 
training occurrences.  
 
5.11 The pilot training market in New Zealand, particularly t hat catering for international students, 
is a high -growth market.  In 2008 an article in the CAA 's industry magazine, Vector,  noted  an 
increase in  the number of students training for commercial pilot licences from about 300 to 
more than  800 per year  ("Flight Training Growing Pains" , 2008) .  In 2010 a CAA paper noted 
that the capacity of the training sector was estimated to be in the region of 500 trainee pilots 
a year (CAA, 2010), and a further paper found that approximately 448 aircraft were being 
used for training purposes in New Zealand as at 2010 (Knotridge  Limited , 2010).   
 
5.12 Notwithstanding some consolidation in the past few years , the flying  training industry in New 
Zealand is optimistically forecast to nearly double in value by 2015 , with oversea s students 
accounting for most of the revenue growth and their contribution increasing to $56 million  
(Knotridge  Limited , 2010) .  It is reasonable to assume that flying training activity and the 
aircraft training fleet will increase commensurately at a time when other forms of aviation 
activity will expand .  
 
5.13 Several international studies have analysed the relationship between specific occurrence 
types and increasing air traffic.  For example, when considering the mid -air collision po tential 
in Australia, the ATSB  hypothesised that the probability (likelihood) of a collision in any given 
airspace would grow more quickly  than the growth in traffic  (ATSB, 1991) . 
 

<< Page 18 >>
 Report 10 -011  
Figure 9  
Number of possible collisions with inc reasing air traffic (ATSB, 1991)  
 
5.14 Figure 9 illustrates the theoretical increase in potential collision  pairs (each involving 2 
aircraft) as a result of increasing traffic density .  For example, with 5 aircraft in the area  there 
are 10 possible collision pairs  and with 10 aircraft there are 45  (ATSB, 1991) .  
 
5.15 If this model were to reflect reality  accurately , and with  all other things being equal, even a 
modest increase in the number of aircraft flying could result in a disproportionately large 
increase in potential and actual occurrences.  This , however,  assumes that no mitigation 
measures are implemented to prevent mid -air collisions in a period.  
 
5.16 Another ATSB study found a positive relationship between the number of runway incursions 
and the level of aero drome traffic  (ATSB, 2004 a).  A similar trend was documented in a 
Transport Canada report , which  noted  that as aerodrome traffic increased there was a rise in 
the potential risk of incursions that could in turn result in a rise in actual incursions  (Transp ort 
Canada, 2000) .  The report attributed the increase in traffic and potential risk to the use of 
capacity -enhancing aerodrome procedures (e.g. parallel runways).  
 
5.17 However, the results of these studies must be viewed with caution.  It would be over simpl istic 
to assume that there will be a positive correlation between occurrences and air traffic 
volume s.  The second ATSB report noted above, citing Australian and  United States  
occurrence data, deduced that an increase in incursions in some years was not so lely due to 
an underlying increase in aircraft activity.   A further ATSB discussion paper reported that there 
had been  37 mid -air collisions at a static rate of about one collision per year since 1968, 
despite the growth in aviation experienced in Australia  (ATSB, 2004 b).   
 
5.18 The Commission did not find any data or research specific to flying training  or general aviation 
in New Zealand  on this matter .  Accordingly, it is not clear to what extent increasing air traffic  
could be a problem or what the o ngoing trends are  in New Zealand.  It is clear though that 
increased traffic density may not be the only  explanation for the number of  occurrences to 
increas e in the flying training sector.   Other contributing factors could be relevant , such as  
pilot demographics, the inherent difficulties of pilots sighting other aircraft in time to avoid 
collision s, and the configuration of aerodromes, including  the type and mix of air traffic  at 
those aerodromes , traffic separation standards and their use of c apacity -enhancing 
procedures.  Even the increased presence of ground vehicles could be a factor as an 
aerodrome expands its infrastructure to meet increased aviation demand.  Having said that, 
increasing aerodrome traffic is certainly likely to increase the risk of occurrences.  010203040506070
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12Aircraft movements  
Number of aircraft in area  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 19 >>
 
 Findings  
6. The effect s of increasing aviation activity in New Zealand on flying training and aviation safety 
in general are uncertain.  There is insufficient data and research on this matter . 
7. International research (which is limited and not conclusive) shows that  increas ing traffic is 
likely to be a contributing factor but not a dominant cause  of flying training occurrences .  
Accidents do not happen solely because there is an increase in traffic , although  the risk is 
likely to be elevated.   
English language proficiency  
5.19 Several submissions commented on the level of English language proficiency required by 
students and pilots, including an industry trade body , which  wrote:  
 
At these [non -air traffic control] airports, aircraft transmissions are recorded primarily for the 
purpose of obtaining information for invoicing landing fees.  Notwithstanding, considerable difficulty 
is often experience [d] when attempting to recover the transmissions from  the recording system as 
the standard of radio procedure is frequently poor with many important calls often unintelligible.  Of 
particular concern is the inability of many student pilots, principally from overseas countries, to 
enunciate the phonetic alpha bet and accordingly pass clearly their aircraft registration, or call sign, 
and the relevant information pertaining to their intentions.  
 
5.20 Another submitter (a pilot organisation) highlighted another aspect of this issue, stating that:  
 
It also appears tha t the large number of foreign students being trained in this country now days  [sic] 
creates its own issues, particularly from English proficiency students.  The concept of "pay an 
amount and get a PPL  [private pilot licence]  or CPL  [commercial pilot licenc e]" often encourages the 
instructors at large training schools to release students at a planned point in time rather than on a 
competency basis and includes that instructor's acceptance that English proficiency has been 
achieved yet for the majority of the se students, that is not the case.  If a student is struggling with 
standard phraseology in English then the extent to which that student has understood the 
instructional flying training to become a competent aviator is doubtful.   
 
English language profic iency requirements  
5.21 In 2008 the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) promulgated English language 
proficiency standards for radiotelephony communications in international air transport  (ICAO, 
2010), following several high -profile accidents where  insufficient English language proficiency 
by the pilot s or air traffic controller s was a contributing factor.  These requirements were 
designed to improve the level of English language proficiency in civil aviation and to reduce 
the frequency of communica tion errors.  They focus ed on oral communication only rather than 
on writing and reading ability, and they cover ed 6 areas of proficiency: pronunciation, 
structure, vocabulary, fluency, comprehension and interactions.  
 
5.22 ICAO introduced a 6-level English lan guage proficiency rating scale , ranging from Level 1 
(Preliminary) to Level 6 (Expert), and mandated  Level 4 (Operational) as the minimum 
proficiency skill level required by licensed pilots to fly safely.   
 
5.23 In New Zealand, these ICAO requirements are larg ely incorporated in CA Rule Part 61  (Pilot 
Licences and Ratings) for private pilot licence holders and above .  For example, Part 61.11(b)  
requires an applicant for a pilot licence to have sufficient ability to speak, understand and 
communicat e in the English language to enable that applicant to exercise the privileges of 
their  licence adequately (CAA, 2011 b).  An applicant must demonstrate this level of 
compliance by demonstrating proficiency to at least ICAO Level 4 (Operational) and 
completin g a number of other tasks such as communicating  effectively in voice -only 
(radiotelephone) communications  and using a dialect or accent that is intelligible to the 
aeronautical community.   If, at any time, the Director of Civil Aviation believes on reasona ble 

<< Page 20 >>
 Report 10 -011 grounds that a pilot's English language ability is inadequate, the pilot may be required to 
undertake a language proficiency assessment10. 
 
5.24 A student pilot may also demonstrate their English proficiency to at least ICAO Level 4 , 
although this is not mandatory  under Part 61 until applying for a private pilot licence .  When a 
flight instructor is satisfied that a student pilot has met an accepted  English language 
assessment requirement, the flight instructor must endorse the studen t pilot's log book.  
 
5.25 Two forms of ICAO English language proficiency assessment are available .  These involve  
supervised listening and speaking telephone tests .  Both assessments are  designed to 
measure a pilot's ability to communicate  accurately  in English .  A person's "spoken aviation 
English" and general English skills, as specified by ICAO, are assessed.  "Aviation English" 
includes standard radiotelephony phraseology and common language relevant to the 
aeronautical environment.   
 
5.26 For Levels 4 and 5, th e "Formal Language Evaluation " assessment is more suitable for 
persons who are not fully proficient in English.  It includes a semi -automated test and a live 
interview.  The "Level 6 Proficiency Demonstration " assessment is designed to confirm that 
native or very proficient non -native English speakers can clearly meet ICAO's Level 6 language 
criteria.  This assessment is suitable for persons who are confident that they are able to 
communicate fluently at Level 6 in all respects.  Even native English -speaker s who have 
speech defect s or strong regional accent s that  could render communication difficult with air 
traffic control or pilots of other aircraft may not qualify for Level 6.  
 
Accidents and related research  
5.27 Statistics published by ICAO indicate that during the period 1976 -2000, more than  1100 
people lost their lives worldwide in aviation accidents in which  a lack of understanding of the 
English language was a contributing factor  ("English Language Proficiency", 2007) .  In 
addition, ICAO found that mul tiple incidents and near misses resulting from language 
problems were reported annually  (ICAO , 2010 ).     
 
5.28 A study by the FAA looked at the types and frequency of communication problems experienced 
by airline pilots who may or may not have had English as t heir primary or official language  
(FAA, 2008) .  The findings revealed that when the registry of an aircraft was foreign and its 
primary or official language was not English, not only did pilots spend more time 
communicating with air traffic control but they also exchanged more transmissions and had 
more communication problems.  It was reported that English language proficiency was a 
factor in 75% of the sampled communication problems among the foreign , non-native English 
aircraft and 29% involving United  States -English aircraft.   
 
5.29 Another FAA  study found that non -English  speaking airline pilots were at a disadvantage when 
flying into countries where their primary or native language was not spoken  (FAA, 2009) .  The 
report indicated that although there wer e fewer foreign aircraft in the communication sample, 
proportionally, the pilots of these aircraft made more communication errors . 
 
5.30 This research also noted that a pilot's general English proficiency, especially accent, often 
resulted in the traffic contro ller not being able to understand completely what the pilot was 
attempting to say.  Although more problematic for foreign pilots, it was noted that 
dysfluencies11 were a fairly common factor for English -speaking pilots too.  Notably for all 
pilots, accent a ffected the intelligibility of 40% of pilot messages.   
 
                                                           
10 Part 61.43(a)  of the CA Rules.  
11 Speech that is not smoothly delivered or grammatically well formed.  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 21 >>
 
 5.31 Within New Zealand there is a lack of data on, and no perceivable trend about , the prevalence 
of occurrences attributable to English language proficiency problems in either controlled or 
uncontrolled airspace, or to student pilots being unable to communicate because of their 
inadequate knowledge of the English language.  Although  numerous overseas studies have 
looked at this safety issue, the Commission was not able  to find any that specifically looked at 
English language proficiency in the context of flying training.  
 
5.32 A review of the CAA's occurrence database revealed a total of 8 incidents between 1986 and 
2012 that, to judge by the occurrence description s, involve d poor English language 
proficiency.  Of these, 5 were training flights that involved foreign student pilots.  It was not 
possible to conclude if the student pilot s were  English -speaking  or non -English -speaking.  
There were no fatalities or injuries as a r esult of these incidents.  The last  notified  incident 
occurred in 2000.   
 
5.33 The Commission has investigated only one aviation incident where the English language 
proficiency of the flight crew may have been a contributing factor.  This incident occurred in 
2004 (before ICAO introduced its English language proficiency requirements) and it involved 
an international scheduled airline operator.  In that case the Commission found that the effect 
of English as a second language on the flight crew 's competency and compliance was a safety 
issue (TAIC  (a) n.d.).    
 
Findings  
8. International  studies have found that poor English language proficiency has played a 
contributing role in a number of significant international accidents.  
9. Anecdotal evidence suggests that poor English language proficiency and comprehension of 
English may have been contributing factor s in some New Zealand occurrences .  However, with 
the exception of one occurrence that it investigated, the Commission did not find any data or 
research  to support this.   
10. New Zealand has a pertinent and specific framework for testing English language proficiency 
in civil aviation , as required by ICAO .  The Commission found no evidence to suggest that th is 
testing regime is not providing reliable, valid and practical evaluation s of pilot language 
proficiency in accordance with ICAO criteria.  
 
Radiotelephony communications  
5.34 Several written submissions raised concerns about non -standard radio calls, the inappropriate 
use of radio equipment and inadequate training in radiotelephony.  One submitter (an airport 
operator) wrote:  
 
Generally our experienced staff have  had difficulty in understanding pilots who do not have English 
as their first language.  There is also an issue with the radio procedure employed by local pilots 
through either familiarity or complacency.  The major issue centres on pilots not speaking cl early, 
rushing their communications (particularly call signs) and not being clear about their location and 
intentions.  Within the circuit normal "Base" or "Finals" calls are frequently omitted along with the 
intentions of the pilot.  Overall the standard of radio procedure is generally poor.  
 
Radiotelephony communication requirements  
5.35 In its simplest form, radiotelephony provides the means by which pilots and ground personnel 
communicate with each other.  Radiotelephony is essential for the safe operation of aircraft in 
a busy environment.  

<< Page 22 >>
 Report 10 -011  
5.36 In the past 50 years ICAO has promulgated standards, recommended practices and guidance 
material to harmoni se radiotelephony speech and to improve the use of standard aviation 
phraseology in international aviation.   
 
5.37 New Zealand, like many other countries, has incorporated ICAO requirements and 
international best practice in its aviation legislation, for  both  international and domestic air 
transport operations.  For example, under CA Rule Part 61 .105(a)(5) , a flight instructor must 
certify that their  student has received instruction and demonstrated competence in practical 
flight radiotelephony before permitting that student to fly solo.  Before receiving a private pilot 
licence a student pilot must pass a written exam that requir es a good knowledge of the 
applicable rules and radio procedures.  As part of the private pilot licence flight test, a student 
pilot must successfully demonstrate to the flight examiner competency in radiotelephony 
procedures and ph raseology.   
 
5.38 In addition to the CA Rules , the CAA has produced a number of Advisory Circulars and 
guidance material containing information about the standards, practices and procedures to 
facilitate compliance with the radiotelephony communication rules.  The New Zealand 
Radiotelephony Manual contains a compendium of clear, concise, standardised phraseology 
and associated guidelines for radiotelephony communication in New Zealand  (CAA, 2011 c).   
 
New Zealand occurrence  data and research  
5.39 The Commission could not clearly identify radiotelephony communication occurrences  in New 
Zealand that were specific to flying training.  A review of the CAA's occurrence database for 
the period 1993 -2012 found approximately 290 incidents  that, judging fro m the occurrence 
description s, may have involved radiotelephony miscommunication event s of some nature.  
These incidents typically resulted in the following occurrence types being recorded : 
unauthorised airspace incursion, loss of separation, unauthorised altitude penetration, and 
breach of other clearance.  None of the incidents resulted in fatalities or injuries.  Notably, 
there was a prevalence of incidents involving  air traffic controllers using non -standard 
radiotelephony phraseology.  
 
5.40 Neither the CAA nor Airways has closely examined the role of radiotelephony errors in flying 
training incidents or generally.  Nor could the Commission find any other data, research or 
analysis conducted on the prevalence of radiotelephony communication -related incidents in 
New Zealand.   
 
5.41 Notwithstanding this, when the CAA met with Commissioners in October 2011, it 
acknowledged an issue with phraseology and the practice and use of radiotelephony in 
aircraft.  In promoting its 2012 series of AvKiwi safety seminars for pilots, it  commented that 
poor radio calls could lead to airspace infringements , blocked runways, near misses and 
collisions  (CAA, 2012 b).  It also noted that in  2011 there were almost 300 incidents of aircraft 
reported as being in the wrong place in New Zealand skies, often with poor communication as 
the cause.  
 
5.42 The Commission has previously investigated incidents involving non -adherence to standard 
procedures for radiotelephony use , and made recommendations regarding compliance with 
published radiotelephony techniques.  Two of these incidents, which involved scheduled air 
transport operations , resulted in critical runway in cursions but no fatalities, injuries o r damage  
(TAIC  (b) n.d.).  
 
5.43 In 2011 the Commission recommended "that the Director of Civil Aviation promote to all pilots 
and operators , through the best means available,  the need to use appropriate phraseology to 
declare a level of urgency or distress that  reflects the true nature of an emergency  (001/11) " 
(TAIC, 2011 b).  In response to this recommendation the CAA used its 2012 series of AvKiwi  
safety seminars to promote the use of correct phraseology in various situations.  The seminars 
covered the principles of good radiotelephony, radiotelephony discipline and phraseology , with 
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 23 >>
 
 practical examples of good and bad radio calls plus an electronic  interactive education radio 
course called Plane Talking .  The CAA also produced a new guide to good radio operating 
practice  titled Plane Talking , A Guide to Good Radio Use  (CAA, 2012 a).   
 
International occurrence  data and research  
5.44 Cushing  (1994)  examined problems with radiotelephony and cited many instances, worldwide, 
where occurrences  had happened  because of:  
(a) pilots turning  down  their radio volumes either intentionally or unintentionally  
(b) pilots forgetting to use their radios  
(c) pilots mistakenly turning to the wrong frequenc ies 
(d) pilots using their radio s for unnecessary communications  
(e) pilots using incorrect phraseology.  
 
5.45 Data from the United Kingdom suggested that the 3 main types of communication error were 
read -back and hear -back errors, call sign confusion and non -adherence to radiotelephony 
standards.  Communication errors were present in 40% of United Kingdom  runway incursions  
in 2005  (National Air Traffic Services , 2006) . 
 
5.46 A United States survey  of general aviation incidents during dual instruction revealed that one -
third of these incidents were associated with communication difficulties  (Etem & Patten, 
1998 ).  These problems included failure to comply with air traff ic control clearances, 
communication equipment malfunctions and poor radio technique.  The study also found a 
prevalence of tower -communication reports , reinforcing the notion that the effective 
management of instructional communications while monitoring t ower frequencies was crucial 
to the effective and safe conduct of dual training operations.   
 
5.47 In 2006/07 the ATSB reviewed surface movement control frequency tapes in response to 
industry concerns about the use of excess and non-standard phraseology in re ad-backs, 
resulting in radio congestion  (ATSB, 2007 a).  The review identified a high level of compliance 
with the aeronautical information publication read -back requirements , but it noted that the 
use of pleasantries was commonplace.  Although these did no t appear to affect frequency 
congestion adversely, in times of high traffic density they were considered inappropriate.  
 
5.48 The ATSB's review also noted 2 other key points : that despite technological advancements 
(e.g. digital datalink systems) verbal communi cation remained the most common form of 
communication in the air traffic system ; and that the use of standard radiotelephony phrases 
and procedures, such as read -backs, was one of the inherent risk controls in pilot -controller 
communications.  
 
Findings  
11. Aviation investigation authorities and civil aviation regulators worldwide acknowledge 
that radiotelephony communication -related occurrences are a significant risk to 
aviation safety.   
12. Anecdotal evidence suggests that radiotelephony miscommunication may have been 
a contributory factor in some New Zealand occurrences ; however, the Commission did 
not find any data  or research  to support the concern that a significant problem exists 
with radiotelephony communications in the New Zealand flying training se ctor or in 
general.  Overall, reported radiotelephony communication -related incidents in New 
Zealand account for only a very small proportion of total reported occurrences 

<< Page 24 >>
 Report 10 -011 (statistically insignificant).    
13. New Zealand has a pertinent and specific regime for teaching and testing 
radiotelephony communications, which is consistent with ICAO's standards and 
recommended practices.  The Commission found no evidence to suggest that this 
regime is not providing reliable, valid and practical evaluation s of pilot radiotelephony 
proficiency in accordance with ICAO criteria.  
 
Situational awareness and see -and-avoid  
5.49 Several written submissions commented on situational awareness, particularly the need for 
greater training in this area and the effect s of cockpit workload on pilots' ability to keep track 
of where they are.  Other written submissions commented on the effectiveness of the see -and-
avoid principle , with 2 submitters referencing a French study (Bureau d'Enquêtes et 
d'Analyses pour la Sécurit é de l'Aviation Civile, n.d.) to support their conclusion s that the see -
and-avoid principle is flawed.   
 
5.50 Factors that limit  the see -and-avoid principle include : "diffusion of responsibility ", where a 
pilot might assume that another pilot in the cockpit is  keeping watch ; cockpit workload , where 
pilots are tempted  to keep their heads down rather than look out their windows; aircraft 
design features or ergonomics , where cockpit layout and windshield obstructions prevent 
proper view s outside the aircraft; pilo ts' visual blind spots; and pilots not being able to actually 
see aircraft owing  to sun glare.    
 
5.51 The problem with cockpit workload was noted by a pilot organisation in its written submission 
to the Commission.  It wrote:  
Also, because of the growing numb er of glass cockpit aircraft being used in the training arena these 
days plus the natural lean towards automated navigation equipment etc [it] seems to be resulting in 
student pilots concentrating more [on the] inside [of] the cockpit than out which negate s both the 
"see and avoid" principle and situational awareness which are crucial in congested airspace, 
particularly when uncontrolled.  
5.52 It was also noted by the CAA when it met with Commissioners in October 2011  that: 
 
… the technology that is coming into those sorts of VFR  [visual flight rules]  aircraft is astonishing…  
But we are increasingly seeing a generation of pilots who are operating now heads down in the 
cockpit managing the technology.  
 
5.53 Despite these known limitations, the see -and-avoid principle remains a fundamental element 
of good airmanship.  It is generally accepted that it does work effectively in the vast majority of 
situations , prevent ing many collisions , although time and resourc es meant that the 
Commission could not fully examine the extent to which this was the case.  In some situations 
it is the best, if not the only, form of ensuring separation between aircraft.  A 1979 study, 
however, did estimate that without air traffic ser vices and in the absence of any ability to see -
and-avoid there would be 34 times more mid -air collisions en -route and 80 times more mid -air 
occurrences in terminal areas  (Machol, 1979) .   
 
New Zealand occurrence  data and research  
5.54 Anecdotal evidence suggests  that the number of occurrences involving a loss of situational 
awareness or the failure to use proper see -and-avoid is potentially high ; however, the 
Commission was unable to verify this.  Apart from Commission and CAA investigation  reports 
where a loss of situational awareness was a factor during training, the Commission did not 
find any relevant research specific to flying training in New Zealand.  
   
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 25 >>
 
 5.55 In addition, the Commission found it  difficult to ascertain the number of occurren ces in New 
Zealand where pilot s had failed to apply the see -and-avoid principle effectively or where 
losses of situational awareness contributed to occurrence s.  This was partly because of the 
CAA's taxonomy for recording occurrences in its occurrence data base , which  did not 
specifically require it to record these 2 events as contributing factors .  Also, a nalysing  the 
CAA's occurrence database to  identify and quantify the number of occurrences would have 
been a considerable task for the Commission.     
 
5.56 As a crude indication, the Commission examined flying training occurrences held in the CAA's 
occurrence database between 1970 and 2012.  This revealed 7 incidents where a loss of 
situational awareness was reported and 2 incidents where the pilot did not us e proper see -
and-avoid.  However, for a number of these incidents the pilot s-in-command of the training 
aircraft were  not at fault.  In these cases, it was determined that the pilot s of the  non-training 
aircraft  had lost situational awareness , thereby resu lting in the training flight s having to take 
evasive action.  In one incident the air traffic controller lost situational awareness, while in 
another incident the pilot of a dual training flight failed to see -and-avoid a ground obstruction 
while manoeuvrin g the aircraft on the ground in the aerodrome.  
 
International occurrence  data and research  
5.57 A review of international literature showed that a loss of situational awareness was a 
significant factor in a high number of occurrences .  Situational awareness was typically 
categorised as a human factor issue, and research by the ATSB, for example, found that 
human factors were a contributing cause in around 70 -80% of all incidents and accidents  
(ATSB, 2007 b).  
 
5.58 Further ATSB research det ermined that see -and-avoid conflicts where situational awareness 
errors were involved made up about 15%  of all occurrences at non -towered aerodromes 
between 2003 and 2008  (ATSB, 2010 b).  Furthermore, there were 60 serious incidents in 
which an accident alm ost occurred, mostly owing  to a lack of communication between pilots 
or an insufficient awareness of nearby traffic.  In 87 occurrences a Traffic Collision Avoidance 
System ( TCAS ) alert occurred when a potential separation issue arose.  In over half of these 
cases the pilots were unaware of the potential separation issue until the TCAS alert was 
generated . 
Findings  
14. International data shows that a loss of situational awareness and the failure of, or failure to 
use, proper see -and-avoid techniques were  significant factors in a high number of 
occurrences .   
15. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the re may be a high  number of occurrences  in New Zealand  
involving a loss of situational awareness and/ or the failure of, or failure to use , proper see -
and-avoid  techniques.   However, the Commission did not find any data or research specific to 
flying training in New Zealand  or in general  to support  this.   
 
Government funding structure for pilot training  
5.59 Several submissions highlighted potential  negative effects of the current government funding 
structure for flying training , commenting that:  
 
(a) a misalignment exists between funding and employment outcomes  
 
(b) flight training schools have an incentive to enrol students up to their equivalent full-
time student ( EFTS ) level but not to make sure that the training given is relevant to 
employers  

<< Page 26 >>
 Report 10 -011  
(c) the decision criteria for the allocation of EFTS funding to providers are not 
transparent  
(d) the government funding level is inadequate and therefore has the potential to 
reduce safety margins for businesses.  Training organisations' ability to invest in new 
technology is constrained , thereby resulting in small or non -existent p rofit margins.  
This leads to financial business decisions influencing operational decisions, which 
may have an  impact on training and training safety.  
 
Funding system for pilot training  
5.60 The arrangements for government funding of pilot training for domestic students in New 
Zealand were significantly changed in 2011 for all new student enrolments from 2012 
onwards.  These changes were implemented following a significant review of aviation pilot 
training by the TEC. 
 
5.61 The total amount of funding is det ermined annually as part of the government's Vote 
Education budget process.  Also, course tuition fees are capped annually in accordance with 
the Annual Maximum Fee Movement policy, and were reduced in 2012.  The government also 
reduced the EFTS cap for go vernment -funded pilot training courses from 600 to 450 EFTS.   
 
5.62 Government funding only covers a proportion of the cost s of pilot training.  The remainder is 
made up with student loan contributions.  Students are eligible for student loans if the flight 
training they receive is offered in conjunction with recognised tertiary education provider s.   
 
Potential implications for aviation safety  
5.63 Several submitters identified a range of issues regarding the government's funding structure 
for flying training.  Many of these  issues , although legitimate, did not raise  safety issues for 
flying training in New Zealand  or were outside the scope of the Commission's inquiry .  They 
included issues such as  the student loan process.  
 
5.64 The recent changes to government funding resulted from several independent reviews of pilot 
training funding undertaken on behalf of the TEC and followed a period of industry 
consultation .  The government's review of pilot training was prompted by a number of 
concerns about the efficacy and value  for money of the public investment in pilot training, 
including high student debt levels.   
 
5.65 The government's decision was also informed by findings and recommendations made in the 
Strategic Training Plan and Map of Provision, a joint industry and governm ent agenc y initiative 
led by the Aviation Travel and Tourism Industry Training Organisation.  Although these reviews 
considered issues related to the efficiency and effectiveness of the pilot training funding 
system, they did not specifically consider the potential impact s of the proposed changes on 
aviation safety per se .  However, it is a precondition of government funding that flight training 
organisations meet minimum aviation safety standards.    
 
5.66 The Commission did not find any other research that considered the impact s of pilot training 
funding arrangements on flying training safety.  Nor did its own air accident inquiry reports 
raise any safety findings or recommendations in relation to government funding of pilot 
training.  
 
5.67 Anecdotally, however,  a number of potential issues could arise from the recent changes to the 
funding structure for flight training.  In its submission to the Ministry of Education in 2011, the 
New Zealand Air Line Pilots ' Association ( NZALPA ) was concerned that quality traini ng 
providers, who were facing higher overheads, would be placed under significant financial 
pressure to reduce costs and thereby reduce safety margins (e.g. cutting costs on 
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 27 >>
 
 maintenance to meet minimum training requirements , or deferring investments in new  aircraft 
and technology)  (NZALPA, n.d.).   
 
5.68 The NZALPA also noted that the changed funding arrangements could result in fewer students 
being trained or more students being less inclined to self -fund.  This could provide an 
incentive to training organisati ons to complete training in the minimum number of hours.  This 
problem was noted by the Australian Bureau of Air Safety Investigation ( BASI ) in relation to the 
economic effects of a recession on flying training  (BASI, 1996) .  BASI considered  that training 
organisations would either accept additional flying hours at no additional cost to student s or 
graduate its students at lower level s of skill than might otherwise have been the case.  
 
5.69 A 2010 report for New Zealand Trade and Enterprise acknowledged the chal lenge for the 
training sector to maintain profitability given that the current EFTS funding level had been 
fixed at 2003 levels and that operational costs, particularly fuel costs, had increased  
(Knotridge  Limited , 2010) .  As a result, most of the training  organisations were under severe 
financial pressure.  Conversely, the report noted that New Zealand had a number of 
competitive advantages to drive future growth in the sector, predominantly by attracting 
international pilot students who do not rely on gov ernment funding.  
 
Findings  
16. The Commission found no evidence that the government funding structure for 
domestic pilot training is affecting flying training safety in New Zealand.   
17. The Commission found no  data or research about the impact s of pilot training funding 
arrangements on flying training safety.  Nor was it able to establish from occurrence 
data any connection between pilot training funding and flying training safety in New 
Zealand.  
 
Accessibility of weather information  
5.70 Some submissions raised concerns about the accessibility of weather information, 
commenting that the user -pays model for MetFlight -GA was discouraging pilots and other 
aviation participants from accessing pertinent pre -flight weather information.  Members of th e 
AIA, in particular, noted that without this information pilots were putting themselves and their 
aircraft at risk.  A consultant with the AIA, for example, stated:  
 
I actually think it's a huge downgrade of safety.  While the flight training organisation s - they will 
actually pay for the weather because, really, they have to, there will be a lot of general aviation 
pilots flying around that I know don't…  
 
History of MetFlight -GA 
5.71 MetFlight -GA is an enhanced web -based aviation weather information service av ailable to non-
commercial pilots for pre -flight weather planning.  It was introduced in 2004 and was entirely 
owned and operated on a commercial basis by the Meteorological Service of New Zealand 
(MetService ).  As a safety initiative, the CAA agreed to spo nsor MetFlight -GA.  The aviation 
community, specifically recreational pilots and flight training organisations, was therefore able 
to access this service free  of charge.  Neither MetService nor the CAA was funded to support 
this service.  
 
5.72 The CAA's initial  financial support was only intended to be short term until MetService was 
able to find other funding or sponsorship.  It nevertheless continued its sponsorship for about 

<< Page 28 >>
 Report 10 -011 7 years until 30 June 2011, at a total cost of about $650  000.  During this period MetService 
was unable to secure an alternative source of funding for MetFlight -GA. 
 
5.73 From 1 August 2011 MetService continued to make MetFlight -GA available to non -
commercial , recreational (private) licenced pilots but for an annual fee of $95 plus GST.  
Com mercial air transport operation subscribers, including flight training organisations, were 
required by MetService to switch  to either MetFlight Commercial or MetJet (both available for 
a fee).  By 1 August 2011 the more significant flight training establis hments in New Zealand 
had already done this.  For example, MetService statistics show that the number of flight 
training organisations registered to access MetFlight Commercial or MetJet before the 
switchover was 17 (as at 30 June 2011).  As at March 2012 approximately 2 6% of flight 
training organisations had subscribed to access MetFlight Commercial or MetJet (up from 17 
organisations in June 2011 to 46 in March 2012).  
 
5.74 In terms of the effect s of moving from a funded to a user -pays model for MetFlight -GA on 
subscriptions , MetFlight -GA had 3991 registered users  in 2007, which b y 30 June 2011 (just 
before the CAA's sponsorship ended) had increased to 5779 users (consisting of individual , 
recreational , private pilot users as well as flight training organisatio ns and their staff, and 
other commercial operators)  (CAA, n.d. [unpublished data]) .   
 
5.75 However, a s at March 2012, according to MetService , there were 570 registered users of 
MetFlight -GA comprising individual recreational users and some smaller commercial operators 
granted special dispensation to continue utilising MetFlight -GA.  This represented a significant 
fall in subscriptions , by approximately 90%.  As a rough guide, 570 users re present 
approximately 10 -16% of the potential number of active pilot licence holders exercising 
private pilot licence (recreational) privileges in New Zealand12. 
 
Potential impact s on flying training safety  
5.76 A review of the CAA's occurrence database revealed  only one incident since 1993 where the 
pilot-in-command did not obtain a weather briefing.  The Commission did not find any 
comparable situations overseas where a fully funded weather information service had been 
replaced by a user -pays model.  Although other countries did provide free access to some 
form of pre -flight weather information, it was beyond the scope of this inquiry  to compare 
others' information sources, service delivery methods and charging mechanisms with those of  
MetFlig ht-GA.   
 
5.77 Overseas research and investigation reports, however, did indicate that pilots failing to access 
pre-flight weather information did contribute to fatal occurrences.  An ATSB study , which 
looked at fatal accidents in private operations between 1999 and 2008, found that problems 
with pilots assessing and planning were the most common contributing factor s and were 
present in nearly half of the fatal accidents (46%)  (ATSB, 2010 c).  These included accidents 
where the pilot s had failed to check the w eather forecast before the flight s.  Also, recent 
research by the FAA found that failure to get a pre -flight weather briefing, or a briefing from 
only a low -grade (non -aviation -orientated) source , seemed to constitute a problem for 5% of 
United States general aviation pilots  (FAA, 2010) . 
 
5.78 The Commission did not find evidence to show that free access to MetFlight -GA incrementally 
improved safety in New Zealand after its introduction in 2004.  Conversely, it did not find 
evidence to show that the withdraw al of free access to MetFlight -GA had an adverse impact on 
the level of flying training safety in New Zealand (although this is not surprising given that the 
change occurred less than a year ago).   
 
5.79 In the long term it is unlikely that the user -pays model  will have adverse impact s on flying 
training safety because student pilots and flight training organisations are required to have 
                                                           
12 Based on CAA published statistics (as at March 2012)  retrieved from www.caa.govt.nz.  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 29 >>
 
 access to weather forecasts.  Even though the number of flight training organisations 
subscribing to MetFlight Commercial and MetJet remains low , some can access MetFlight -GA 
using personal logons from staff to provide pre -flight weather information  to students in 
training .  Others may also have access to alternative  information sources  or suppliers (e.g. 
Airways) .  Notwithstanding this, it is important  that the CAA remain alert to  any possible trends 
that may develop as a direct consequence of the user -pays model . 
 
Findings  
18. The Commission found no evidence  to show that free access to MetFlight -GA 
incrementally improved safety in New Zealand after its introduction in 2004.  
19.  Conversely, the Commission found no evidence to show that the level of flying training 
safety in New Zealand was adversely affected by MetFlight -GA changing from a free to 
a user -pays weather information service.  Flight training organisations must always 
access weather information in some form.   
 
Flying training regulatory system  
5.80 Some submitters made general comments about the New Zealand regul atory system for flying 
training and, in particular, questioned whether there were  any significant gaps or issues with 
this system  that could be affecting flying training safety.  Although no specific concerns or 
issues were raised by submitters about the regulatory system, the Commission nevertheless  
looked at this, for completeness .  
 
5.81 Flying training in New Zealand operates within a reg ulatory system governed by the C ivil 
Aviation  Act 1990 .  Th is Act provides minimum safety standards  that aviation participants 
(also referred to as aviation document holders) must meet.  These safety standards are 
further prescribed in CA Rules  and support ed by Advisory Circulars and guidance material.  In 
many cases, these rules reflect standards set by ICAO.  
 
5.82 The CAA issues licences and ratings and sets the minimum standard s of skill and knowledge 
required by aviation document holders to operate safely within the civil aviation system.  The 
CA Rules set out what pilots and flight instructors must do in order to gain, and to continue 
exercising the privileges of, their licence s and ratings.  Typically , this involves their periodically 
demonstrating their flying skills and knowledge to CAA -approved flight instructor s or 
examiner s.  Flight training organisations are also subject to surveillance and monitoring by the 
CAA.  
 
5.83 The CA A is responsible for formulating the theory and practical assessment syllabi to enable 
applicants to undergo the skills and knowledge training needed to attain the required 
minimum standards.  In turn, the flight training industry develops structured train ing and 
course material that pilots follow to achieve the required minimum standards.  
 
5.84 After reviewing the relevant legislation  and other supporting material regarding flying training, 
the Commission did not find any significant gaps in the regulatory syst em for flying training in 
New Zealand .  Again , this is not to say that gaps (significant or otherwise) do not exist.  It 
simply means that the Commission did not find any evidence of this.   
 
5.85 What the Commission did find is that New Zealand has designed a competency -based flying 
training model and licensing system that meets or exceeds ICAO minimum standards and 
international best practice.  The regulatory licensing minima for pilots and aviation training 

<< Page 30 >>
 Report 10 -011 personnel are generally in accord with proficiency  and currency standards in Europe, the 
United Kingdom, the United States and Australia.  
 
5.86 The Commission also found that New Zealand has a well  respected training system that, by all 
accounts, is producing competently trained pilots.  Given that the minimum  standards 
required to obtain pilot qualification s reflect the standards set by ICAO, it is reasonable to 
expect that a person who successfully completes the prescribed training and meets these 
minimum standards will have the qualifications and skills need ed to exercise the privileges of 
their licence.  If this were not the case , the international recognition of CAA-issued licences 
would be at risk.   The New Zealand pilot qualification continues to be recognised by 
international aviation authorities  and is considered to be of good standing.  
Proposed Civil Aviation Ru le amendments  
5.87 When meeting with Commissioners, the CAA identified expected improvements to the flying 
training system through proposed amendments to CA Rule s Part 61 ( Pilot Licen ces and 
Ratings ) and Part 141 ( Aviation Training Organisations  - Certification ), which appl y to flight 
crew licensing and flight training operators respectively.   
 
5.88 The proposed amendments to Part 61 are intended to legally formalise specific training 
requirements for pilot licensing, which are already incorporated into the training syllabi , and 
eligibility requirements for gaining private pilot and commercial pilot l icence s.  These 
requirements, which will introduce English language proficiency requirements , mountain flying 
and terrain awareness training , and threat and error management training , are expected to 
raise training standards, promote consistency and improve levels of safety in the flying 
training sector.  The Part 61 rule -making project commenced in 2000 and was being 
progressed at the time of writing this report.  The proposed amendm ents are expected to 
come into force in 2013.   
 
5.89 The proposed amendments to Part 141 are intended to require all flight training organisations 
conducting certain training activities to be certificated.  At present, only a limited range of 
training and asse ssments must be conducted by organisations approved under Part 141.  
This is in contrast to Australia and the U nited Kingdom , where all flying training for pilot 
licences must be conducted by authorised certificate holder s.  ICAO also recommends13 that 
pilot training be conducted by organisations approved by the Contracting State.  The CAA has 
commented that u ntil all flight training organisations are certificated , there will continue to be 
a varied and inconsistent approach to flight training in terms of regulatory oversight, 
organisational supervision , training delivery and outcomes.  In addition, non -certificated 
training organisations may not be held to account under the CA Rules for the quality of the 
training that they provide to students.  
 
5.90 It is uncl ear when the proposed amendments to Part 141 will be completed.  The Part 141 
rule-making project commenced in 2001 but it was removed from the annual rules 
development programme in 2011 following comments from the Ministry of Transport that the 
CAA needed  to conduct further regulatory impact and safety analysis.  Until further work is 
done to address these comments, the rule change programme for Part 141 may be deferred 
indefinitely  (CAA, 2011 d).   
 
5.91 If the proposed amendments to Part 61 and Part 141 are ex pected to improve safety within 
the New Zealand flying training system (and there appears to be general agreement within the 
aviation sector that they will) , every effort should be made to complete both rule change 
programmes without further significant delay.  The Commission therefore recommends, as a 
matter of priority , that the CAA complete the work required to progress the proposed 
amendments to Part 141 and that it also  complete draft final rule -making to implement 
proposed amendments to Part 61 for submission to the Minister of Transport for approval.  
                                                           
13 See Annex 1 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation  - Personnel Licensing.  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 31 >>
 
 Findings  
20. The Commission did not identify any significant gaps in the design of the regulatory system for 
flying training in New Zealand.  This is not to say that gaps (significant or otherwise) do not 
exist.  It simply means that the Commission did not find any evidence of this.  
21. Proposed amendments to CA Rules Part 61 and Part 141 are expected to improve safety 
within the New Zealand flying training system ; however, both amendments have been 
delayed.  Every effort should be made to complete both rule change programmes without 
further significant delay.  
 
  

<< Page 32 >>
 Report 10 -011 6 Data  and research  
6.1 In researching  flying training safety in New Zealand , the Commission examined relevan t CAA 
occurrence data  on flying training accidents and incidents in New Zealand.  The Commission  
also completed a wide -ranging literature review  to identify any relevant empirical research on 
the subject of flying  training  safety in New Zealand and other countries . 
6.2 Although the Commission found a large amount of international research that looked at some 
of the saf ety issues it was considering, there was virtually no recent research  in New Zealand 
or overseas that examined  the factors contributing  to occur rences specifically in the context of 
flying training.   This made it difficult for the Commission to draw any firm conclusions on the 
state of flying training in New Zealand.  
6.3 It is also notable that , compared with other countries, the CAA has not widely or periodically 
published any comprehensive safety reviews of aviation in New Zealand  (of which flying 
training is one activity ) that have a major emphasis  on accident and incident trends , and 
analys es of precursors,  contributing  factors and lessons learned , in order to enhance 
stakeholders' safety focus .   
6.4 The Commission's own review of the data in the CAA's occurrence  database highlighted 
limitations in the CAA's existing safety occurrence reporting and monitoring system , which 
prevented  an accurate and meaningful analysis of flying training accident causal factors and 
historical safety trends.   These include d limitations with the analysis the CAA conducts and the 
comprehensiveness of the safety data it collects, as  well as an absence of data in some areas  
where it appears that key data is missing or was not reported.  For example, in contrast to 
other countries the CAA  does not have clear definitions of, or a risk assessment process for 
categorising or analysing , aircraft loss -of-separation events in controlled and uncontrolled 
airspace.        
6.5 The CAA is aware of these limitations .  In 2011  it commissioned an independent review of 
New Zealand's flying training industry as part of its efforts to understand fully and resolve 
concerns about the sector's safety performance.  In response  to a recommendation from this 
review , the CAA noted that  (n.d.) : 
NZ [New Zealand ] will always suffer from relative data scarcity compared to other jurisdictions , 
because of the size o f the civil aviation activity , which  in turn will always impose some limitations on 
the type of statistical analysis that can be undertaken, including regular statistical and other types 
of quantitative  analysis on an ongoing basis .   
 
6.6 Notwithstanding its comments , it is important that the CAA commit s to strengthen ing the 
collation , analysis and reporting of safety data  for specific aviation sub -sectors, including flying 
training , otherwise it will continue to be  difficult to assess fully and identify any p otential 
systemic safety issues, trends  and risks with flying training in New Zealand.  This in turn will 
make it  difficult to identify appropriate safety strategies that can help to improve safety 
performance within the New Zealand flying training system.  
Findings  
22. There is a lack of data and research examining factors that might  or that have contributed to 
occurrences  in flying training operations in New Zealand and overseas .  There are also  
limitations with the CAA's occurrence database, which make it difficult to analyse flight 
training accident causal  factors and safety trends  accurately.  
23. Quantitative research and a causal analysis of flying training -related occurrences  held in the 
CAA's occurrence database  are needed to assess fully and identify any potential systemic 
safety issues, trends and risks so that appropriate safety strategies can be adopted to 
improve safety performance within the New Zealand flying training system.  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 33 >>
 
 7 Findings  
Flying training safety performance in New Zealand  
7.1 Based on a preliminary analysis of occurrence data, it is not possible to conclude statistically 
whether flying training in New Zealand is less or more safe now than it used to be.  
 
7.2 The r ate of fatalities changes  from  year to year much more in New Zealand than it does in 
other countries , because the flying training industry is smaller.  Overseas data, however, 
indicates that the overall rate of flying training fatalities and fatal accident s in New Zealand is 
broadly comparable with the rates found in Australia and the United States for the period 
1999 to 2009.  
 
7.3 Research and data from the CAA and the ATSB indicate that flying training is likely to be safer 
than other forms of flying.  
Standard of flying training in New Zealand  
7.4 The Commission was unable to conclude whether the standard of flight training in New 
Zealand presents risks to flight training safety.  It did not find any specific research examining 
the quality of the flight training system in New Zealand  or any evidence of significant gaps with 
the flying training programme.  This is not to say that gaps (significant or otherwise) do not 
exist.  It simply means that the Commission did not find any evidence of this.  
 
7.5 General i nformation about flight instructor demographics (e.g. qualifications, experience 
levels, age), performance and competency levels is difficult to obtain, with no one agency 
responsible for collecting this.  This data gap should be addressed.  
Effect s of inc reasing air traffic  
7.6 The effect s of increasing aviation activity in New Zealand on flying training and aviation safety 
in general are uncertain.  There are insufficient data and research on this matter.  
 
7.7 International research (which is limited and not conc lusive) shows that increasing traffic is 
likely to be a contributing factor but not a dominant cause of flying training occurrences.  
Accidents do not happen solely because there is an increase in traffic, although the risk is 
likely to be elevated.   
English language proficiency  
7.8 International studies have found that poor English language proficiency has played a 
contributing role in a number of significant international accidents.  
 
7.9 Anecdotal evidence suggests that poor English language proficiency and comp rehension of 
English may have been contributing factor s in some New Zealand occurrences.  However, with 
the exception of one occurrence that it investigated, the Commission did not find any data or 
research to support this.   
 
7.10 New Zealand has a pertinent a nd specific framework for testing English language proficiency 
in civil aviation, as required by ICAO.  The Commission found no evidence to suggest that this 
testing regime is not providing reliable, valid and practical evaluation s of pilot language 
profic iency in accordance with ICAO criteria.  
 
 

<< Page 34 >>
 Report 10 -011 Radiotelephony communications  
7.11 Aviation investigation authorities and civil aviation regulators worldwide acknowledge that 
radiotelephony communication -related occurrences are a significant risk to aviation safety.   
7.12 Anecdotal evidence suggests that radiotelephony miscommunication may h ave been a 
contributory factor in some New Zealand occurrences ; however, the Commission did not find 
any data or research to support the concern that a significant problem exists with 
radiotelephony communications in the New Zealand flying training sector or in general.  
Overall, reported radiotelephony communication -related incidents in New Zealand account for 
only a very small proportion of total reported occurrences (statistically insignificant).    
 
7.13 New Zealand has a pertinent and specific regime for te aching and testing radiotelephony 
communications, which is consistent with ICAO's standards and recommended practices.  The 
Commission found no evidence to suggest that this regime is not providing reliable, valid and 
practical evaluation s of pilot radiote lephony proficiency in accordance with ICAO criteria.  
Situational awareness and see -and-avoid  
7.14 International data shows that the loss of situational awareness and the failure of, or failure to 
use, proper see -and-avoid techniques were significant factors i n a high number of 
occurrences.   
 
7.15 Anecdotal evidence suggests that there may be a high number of occurrences in New Zealand 
involving a loss of situational awareness and/or the failure of, or failure to use, proper see -
and-avoid techniques.  However, the Commission did not find any data or research specific to 
flying training in New Zealand or in general to support this.   
Government funding structure for pilot training  
7.16 The Commission found no evidence that the government funding structure for domestic pil ot 
training is affecting flying training safety in New Zealand.   
 
7.17 The Commission found no data or research about the impact s of pilot training funding 
arrangements on flying training safety.  Nor was it able to establish from occurrence data any 
connectio n between pilot training funding and flying training safety in New Zealand.  
Accessibility of weather information  
7.18 The Commission found no evidence to show that free access to MetFlight -GA incrementally 
improved safety in New Zealand after its introduction i n 2004.  
 
7.19 Conversely, the Commission found no evidence to show that the level of flying training safety 
in New Zealand was adversely affected by MetFlight -GA changing from a free to a user -pays 
weather information service.  Flight training organisations must always access weather 
information in some form.   
Flying training regulatory system  
7.20 The Commission did not identify any significant gaps in the design of the regulatory system for 
flying training in New Zealand.  This is not to say that gaps (significant or otherwise) do not 
exist.  It simply means that the Commission did not find any evidence of this.  
 
7.21 Proposed amendments to CA Rules Part 61 and Part 14 1 are expected to improve safety 
within the New Zealand flying training system ; however, both amendments have been 
delayed.  Every effort should be made to complete both rule change programmes without 
further significant delay.  
 
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 35 >>
 
 Data and research  
7.22 There is a lack of data and research examining factors that might or that have contributed to 
occurrences in flying training operations in New Zealand and overseas.  There are also 
limitations with the CAA's occurrence database, which make it difficult to analyse flight 
training accident causal factors and safety trends accurately.  
 
7.23 Quantitative research and a causal analysis of flying training -related occurrences held in the 
CAA's occurrence database are needed to assess fully and identify any potential sy stemic 
safety issues, trends and risks so that appropriate safety strategies can be adopted to 
improve safety performance within the New Zealand flying training system.   

<< Page 36 >>
 Report 10 -011 8 Recommendations  
8.1 On 13 December  2012 the Commission recommended to the Director of Civi l Aviation that he:  
 
(a) review the CAA's data systems  and processes , particularly regarding flying training 
data , including the information collected and the way this information is collected, 
categorised, recorded in the CAA's occurrence database and analysed to ensure that 
meaningful and complete data on flying training in New Zealand is available ; 
(032/12)  
 
(b) undertake and publish further quantitative research and causal analys es of flying 
training -related accidents and incidents held in the CAA's occurrence database to 
assess fully and identify any potential systemic safety issues, trends and risks, so 
that appropriate safety strategies can be adopted to improve safety performance  
within the New Zealand flying training system ; (033/12)  
 
(c) take all ap propriate steps to ensure that information about flight instructor 
demographics (e.g. qualifications, experience levels, age ) and flight instructor 
performance and competency levels is regularly collected, categorised and recorded 
in a way that will  enable  it to be  analysed  meaningfully ; (034/12  
 
(d) complete, as a matter of priority, the tasks that the CAA is required do  to progress 
the proposed amendments to CA Rule Part 141 ( Aviation Training Organisations - 
Certification ) and to CA Rule Part 61 ( Pilot Licen ces and Ratings ). (035/12)  
 
  
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 37 >>
 
 9 References  
Aerosafe Risk Management (2011, August). Civil Aviation Authority of New Zealand: Flight 
Training Review.  Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Australian Transport Safety Bureau (1991, April).  Research Report: Limitations of the See -
and-Avoid Principle.  Retrieved from http://www.atsb.gov.au  
 
Australian Transport Safety Bureau (2004b, May).  Research Report: A review of Midair 
Collisions Involving General Aviation Aircraft in Australia between 1 961 and 2003 .  
Retrieved from http://www.atsb.gov.au  
 
Australian Transport Safety Bureau (2004a, June).  Aviation Safety Research Paper:  Runway 
Incursions: 1997 to 2003 .  Retrieved from http://www.atsb.gov.au  
 
Australian Transport Safety Bureau (2007 b, 30 January).  Human Factors Analysis of 
Australian Aviation Accidents and Comparison with the United States .  (ATSB 
Transport Safety Investigation Report: Aviation Research and Analysis Report  - 
B2004/0321 Final .)  Retrieved from http://www.atsb.gov.au  
 
Australian Transport Safety Bureau (2007 a, June).  Radiotelephony Readback Compliance 
and its Relationship to Surface Movement Control Frequency Congestion.  ATSB 
Transport Safety Report: Aviation Research and Analysis Report 20060053 Final.  
Retrieved fro m http://www.atsb.gov.au  
 
Australian Transport Safety Bureau (2010 a).  Aviation Occurrence Statistics 1999 to 2009.  
(ATSB Transport Safety Report: Aviation Research and Analysis Report - AR-2009 -
016(3) Final .)  Retrieved from http://www.atsb.gov.au  
 
Australian Transport Safety Bureau (2010 c, 23 June).  Improving the Odds: Trends in Fatal 
and Non-fatal Accidents in Private Flying Operations .  (ATSB Transport Safety Report: 
Aviation Research and Analysis Report  - AR-2008 -045 Final .)  Retrieved from 
http://www.atsb.gov.au  
 
Australian Transport Safety Bureau (2010 b, 10 November).  Safety in the Vicinity of Non-
towered Aerodromes .  (ATSB Transport Safety Report:  Aviation Research and Analysis 
Report AR -2008 -044(2) Final .)  Retrieved from http://www.atsb .gov.au  
 
Australian Transport Safety Bureau (2012, 29 May).  Aviation Occurrence Statistics 2002 to 
2011.   (ATSB Transport Safety Report: Aviation Research and Analysis Report AR -
2012 -025 Final .)  Retrieved from http://www.atsb.gov.au  
 
Aviation Services Limited (n.d.).  Quarterly Flight Test Pass Rates.   Retrieved March 2012 
from http://www.aviation.co.nz  
 
Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile (n.d.).  Mid-Air Collisions 
1989 -1999: Safety Study .  Retrieved from http://www.bea.aero  
 
Bureau of Air Safety Investigation (1996, 21 January).  Flying Training in Australia .  (Research 
Paper SAB/RP/91/09 .)  Retrieved from http://www.atsb.gov.au  

<< Page 38 >>
 Report 10 -011  
Civil Aviation Authority (n.d.).  CAA Actions in Response to Aerosafe Report .  Retrieved March 
2012 from http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Civil Aviation Authority (2005).  New Zealand Fixed Wing Aviation Accidents.  A Review of All 
Reported New Zealand Registered Aeroplane Accidents from 1995 to 2004 .  
Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Civil Aviation Authority (2007, September/October, p. 8 -9).  English Language Proficiency.  
Vector .  Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Civil Aviation Authority (2008, September/October, p. 10 -11).  Flight Training Growing Pains .  
Vector .  Retrieved f rom http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Civil Aviation Authority (2010, 12 October).  Review of CAA Funding: Consultation Supporting 
Document B General Information .  Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Civil Aviation Authority (2011a , 29 November ).  Aviation Safety Summary Report, 1 July to 30 
September 2011 .  Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Civil Aviation Authority (2011 d, 5 May, p. 3-4.).  Civil Aviation Rules Register Information 
Leaflet (CARRIL) .  Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Civil Aviatio n Authority (2011 c, 20 September).  Radiotelephony Manual.  Advisory Circular 
91-9 & Advisory Circular 172 -1.  Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz   
 
Civil Aviation Authority (2011b, 3 November).  Pilot Licences and Ratings - General.  Advisory 
Circular 61-1.  Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz   
 
Civil Aviation Authority (2012 a, February).  Plane Talking , A Guide to Good Radio Use, Good 
Aviation Practice .  Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Civil Aviation Authority (2012 b, 28 February).  AvKiwi Safety Seminars for Pilots [press 
release].  Retrieved from http://www.caa.govt.nz  
 
Civil Aviation Safety Authority (2010).  Submission to the Senate Standing Committee on 
Rural Affairs and Transport: Pilot Training and Airline Safety Consideration of the 
Transport Safety Investigation Amendment (Incident Reports) Bill 2010 .  Retrieved 
from http://www.aph.gov.au  
 
Civil Aviation Safety Authority (2011 ).  Annual Report 2010 -11.  Retrieved from 
http://www.casa.gov.au   
 
Cushing , S. (1994).  Fatal Words: Communi cation Clashes and Aircraft Clashes .  Chicago: 
University of Chicago Press.  
 
Etem, K., & Patten, M. (1998, December).  Communications -related Incidents in General 
Aviation Dual Flight Training.  ASRS Directline, Issue No. 10 .  Retrieved from 
http://asrs.ar c.nasa.gov  
 
 
Report 10 -011 
<< Page 39 >>
 
 Federal Aviation Administration (1999).  General Aviation and Air Taxi Activity (GAATA) Survey 
CY1999 .  Retrieved from http://www.faa.gov  
 
Federal Aviation Administration (2008, October).  Pilot English Language Proficiency and the 
Prevalence o f Communication Problems at Five U.S. Air Route Traffic Control Centers 
(DOT/FAA/AM -08/21) .  Retrieved from http://www.faa.gov  
 
Federal Aviation Administration (2009, May).  The ICAO English Language Proficiency Rating 
Scale Applied to Enroute Voice Commun ications of U.S. and Foreign Pilots 
(DOT/FAA/AM -09/10) .  Retrieved from http://www.faa.gov  
 
Federal Aviation Administration (2010, September).  Causes of General Aviation Weather -
Related, Non -Fatal Incidents: Analysis September 2010 Using NASA Aviation Safety 
Reporting System (ASRS) Data .  (Final Report  DOT/FAA/AM -10/13 .)  Retrieved from 
http://www.faa.gov  
 
International Civil Aviation Organization (2010).  Manual on the Implementation of ICAO 
Language Proficiency Requirements (Doc 9835 AN/453) . Retrieve d from 
http://www.icao.int  
 
Knotridge Limited (2010, 15 June).  New Horizons: A Report on New Zealand's Aviation 
Industry .  Retrieved from http://www.aviationnz.co.nz  
 
Machol, R.E. (1979, February).  Effectiveness of the Air Traffic Control System.  Journa l of the 
Operational Research Society , 30, 111 -119.   doi:10.1057/jors.1979.24  
 
National Air Traffic Services Limited  (2006). Communication Error  [DVD]  
 
National Transportation Safety Board ( n.d.).  Aviation Accident Database.  Retrieved from 
http:// www. ntsb.gov  
 
New Zealand Air Line Pilots' Association (n.d. , p. 18 ).  Tertiary Funding Cut s Have Potential to 
Impact Pilot Supply and Training.  Pacific Wings  
 
The Ambidji Group Pty Ltd. (2009, 30 June).  Utility of General Aviation Aerodrome Procedures 
to Australian -Administered Airspace: Report to the Civil Aviation Safety Authority 
Office of Airspace Regulation .  Retrieved from http://www.casa.gov.au  
 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission (a) (n.d.).  Boeing 777, HL 7497, landed short of 
displaced t hreshold, Auckland International Airport, 16 November 2004.  Aviation 
Occurrence Report no. 04 -006.  Wellington: Transport Accident Investigation 
Commission  
 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission (b) (n.d.).  Raytheon 1900D, ZK -EAN and Saab -
Scania SF 340A, ZK -FXA, critical runway incursion, Auckland International Airport, 29 
May 2007.  Occurrence Report  no. 07 -005 INCORPORATING Raytheon 1900D, ZK -
EAH and Raytheon 1900D, ZK -EAG, critical runway incursion, Auckland International 
Airport, 1 August 2007.  Occurrence  Report no. 07 -009.  Wellington: Transport 
Accident Investigation Commission  
 

<< Page 40 >>
 Report 10 -011 Transport Accident Investigation Commission (2010, September).  Interim Factual Report: 
Cessna C152 ZK -JGB and Cessna C152 ZK -TOD, mid -air collision, near Feilding, 
Manawatu, 26 July 2010.  Aviation Inquiry Report no. 10 -008.  Wellington: Transport 
Accident Investigation Commission  
 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission (2011 b, February).  Final Report: Cessna C208 
Caravan, ZK -TZR, engine fuel leak and forced la nding, Nelson, 10 February 2010.  
Aviation Inquiry Report  no. 10 -003.  Wellington: Transport Accident Investigation 
Commission  
 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission (2011 a, October).  Final Report: Cessna A152, 
ZK-NPL and Robinson R22 Beta, ZK -HIE n ear-collision , New Plymouth Aerodrome , 10 
May 2010.  Aviation Inquiry  Report no. 10 -005.  Wellington: Transport Accident 
Investigation Commission  
 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission (2012, October ).  Final Report: Cessna C152 
ZK-JGB and Cessna C15 2 ZK -TOD, mid -air collision, near Feilding, Manawatu, 26 July 
2010.  Aviation Inquiry Report no. 10 -008.  Wellington: Transport Accident 
Investigation Commission  
 
Transport Canada (2000, 14 September).  National Civil Aviation Safety Committee: Sub -
Committ ee on Runway Incursions Final Report .  Retrieved from http://www.tc.gc.ca  
 
United States General Accounting Office (1989, 30 June ).  Air Traffic Control  FAA's Interim 
Actions to Reduce Near  Mid-Air Collisions: Report to the Chairman, Subcommittee on 
Transportation and Related Agencies, Committee on Appropriations, U.S. Senate .  
GAO/RCED -89-149.  Retrieved from http://www.gao.gov  
 
(n.d. = no date)  
 
 
  
 
 
Recent Aviation Occurrence Reports published by  
the Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
(most  recent at top of list)  
 
11-002 Bombardier DHC -8-311, ZK -NEQ, Landing without nose landing gear extended  
Woodbourne (Blenheim) Aerodrome, 9 February 2011  
10-010 Bombardier DHC -8-311, ZK -NEB, landing without nose landing gear extended,  
Woodbourne (Blenheim) Aerodrome, 30 September 2010  
12-001 Interim Factual: Cameron Balloons A210 registration ZK -XXF, collision with power 
line and in -flight fire, 7 January 2012  
10-009 Walter Fletcher FU24, ZK -EUF, loss of control on take -off and impact with terrain, Fox 
Glacier aerodrome, South Westland, 4 September 2010  
10-007 Boeing 737 -800, ZK -PBF and Boeing 737 -800, VH -VXU airspace incident, near 
Queenstown Aerodrome, 20 June 2010  
10-005 Cessna A152, ZK -NPL and Robinson R22 Beta, ZK -HIE near -collision.  
New Plymouth Aerodrome, 10 May 2010  
 
10-003 Cessna C208 Caravan ZK -TZR engine fuel leak and forced landing, Nelson, 10 
February 2010  
 
10-006 Runway Incursion, Dunedin International Airport, 25 May 2010  
10-001 Aerospatiale -Alenia ATR 72 -212A , ZK-MCP and ZK -MCJ, severe turbulence 
encounters , about 50 nautical miles north of Christchurch , 30 December 2009  
09-002 ZK-DGZ, Airborne XT -912, 9 February 2009, and commercial microlight  aircraft 
operations  
 
10-009 Interim Factual: Walter Fletcher FU24, ZK -EUF, loss of control on take -off and impact 
with terrain, Fox Glacier aerodrome, South Westland, 4  September 2010  
10-008 Interim Factual: Cessna C152 ZK -JGB and Cessna C152 ZK -TOD, mid -air collision, 
near Feilding, Manawatu, 26 July 2010  
09-007 Piper PA32 -260, ZK -CNS, impact with ground following a loss of control after take -
off, near Claris, Grea t Barrier Island, 29 September 2009  
09-005 Cessna 182N ZK -FGZ and Bombardier DHC -8 Q311 ZK-NEF,  
loss of separation and near collision, Mercer, 40 km south of Auckland, 9 August 
2009  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Price $ 23.00                                          ISSN 1179 -9080 (Print)  
          ISSN 1179 -9099 (Online)  
