"2012_104","[11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20]","15.0","The report indicates that the driver's performance was below optimum, which could have been influenced by fatigue. The driver started his shift in the early hours of the morning, a period known for low human performance due to the body's circadian rhythm (""The early hours of the morning when he started his shift is a period when human performance is known to be at its lowest due to the circadian rhythm of the body clock causing a strong drive for sleep"" (4.3.5)). Although the driver's roster alone should not have caused fatigue, the quality of his sleep could have been affected by his ailments and medications, which can influence fatigue levels (""Ailments and certain medications can affect a person's quality of sleep"" (4.3.6)).
","0.0","20.0","The driver of the southbound train overran the limits of his track warrant due to a mistaken belief that he had authority to travel to the next track warrant station (""The driver of the southbound train overran the limits of his track warrant because he forgot which track warrant station he had written on his track warrant and developed a mind-set that he had authority to travel to the next track warrant station instead"" (5.1)). This indicates a critical human error and assumption that directly contributed to the incident.
","0.0","10.0","The train controller operating the desk at the time of the incident had previously demonstrated knowledge deficiencies during his biennial theory assessment, which contributed to the incident (""The train controller's knowledge deficiency at the time of his biennial theory assessment was a factor that contributed to the incident"" (4.2.14)). This suggests that training and competency were factors in the incident, although not the primary cause.
","0.0","1.667","There is insufficient information in the provided document to directly attribute the cause of the accident to a lack of training and familiarity with equipment. The report does not mention any equipment-related issues that contributed to the incident.
","2.887","3.333","The report does not explicitly mention Crew Resource Management (CRM) as a contributing factor. However, the failure of the train controller to catch the driver's error during the clause 10 call suggests a lack of effective use of available resources and communication, which are components of CRM (""By not complying with the operating instructions, train controller B missed the opportunity to correct the driver's mistake and consequently prevent the track warrant overrun"" (4.2.9)).
","2.887","20.0","Both the driver and the train controller failed to adhere to safety procedures, which directly contributed to the incident. The driver did not follow the required procedure for checking the limits of his track warrant (""The driver of the southbound train did not follow the required procedure for checking the limits of his track warrant"" (5.3)), and the train controller did not follow the required procedures for checking and monitoring the progress of the southbound train (""The train controller operating the desk at the time of the incident did not follow the required procedures for checking and monitoring the progress of the southbound train"" (5.4)).
","0.0","6.667","The report suggests that KiwiRail's safety culture may not have been robust enough to prevent the incident, as indicated by the train controller's previous assessment results and the lack of follow-up (""KiwiRail did not require him to sit an alternative paper. Instead he received tuition from the assessor, who without reference to the train controller's manager then approved him to continue his train control duties"" (4.2.12)). Additionally, the driver's failure to report his medication suggests a culture where safety may not have been the highest priority (""The driver did not in this case inform his manager"" (4.3.17)).
","2.887","5.0","The report identifies a lack of built-in warning systems to mitigate the risk of the track warrant system failing due to human error as a safety issue (""There was little or no warning systems built into KiwiRail's procedures to mitigate the risk of the track warrant system failing due to human error"" (4.2.15)). This indicates that risk management and analysis were not adequately addressed prior to the incident.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not provide evidence that regulatory oversight and compliance were factors in the accident. The focus is on internal procedures and human factors within KiwiRail.
","0.0","8.333","The driver's incorrect belief about the terminating limit of his track warrant indicates a loss of situational awareness, which contributed to the overrun (""A driver is unlikely to exceed the limit of his track warrant deliberately, so he must have genuinely believed that he was authorised to take his train to Pines"" (4.2.1)).
","2.887","0.0","There is insufficient information in the provided document to suggest that emergency response preparedness was a factor in the accident. The focus of the report is on the events leading up to the overrun, not the response to an emergency situation.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not indicate that maintenance and inspection regimes were contributing factors to the accident. The incident was primarily due to human error and procedural issues.
","0.0","1.667","The report does not mention any issues related to the use of automation as a contributing factor to the accident. The focus is on human factors and procedural adherence.
","2.887","0.0","Weather conditions are not mentioned as a contributing factor in the report. The incident was related to human error and procedural non-compliance.
","0.0","8.333","Communication breakdown played a role in the incident, as evidenced by the train controller's failure to catch the driver's error during the clause 10 call and the driver's incorrect radio broadcasts (""The train controller had only been operating the desk for about 12 minutes following the hand-over and missed that the driver had given the wrong terminating track warrant station"" (4.2.7)). This indicates that effective communication was not maintained, contributing to the accident.
","2.887","0.0","There is no need to add an ""Other"" safety theme as the provided themes cover the factors mentioned in the report.","0.0","true","N/A"
