"2011_006","[10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22]","0.0","There is no mention in the document of fatigue being a factor in the incident.
","0.0","20.0","The pilot's failure to adequately plan for the flight, including not having accurate weight and balance data, and not using the appropriate technique for a successful take-off, were significant contributors to the incident. The pilot also did not recognize that a maximum-performance take-off was required or that a successful take-off might be unlikely, indicating a lack of understanding of scheduled performance (""The pilot did not recognise that the aeroplane weight and aerodrome conditions required her to conduct a maximum-performance take-off or that a successful take-off might be unlikely"" (4.3.3)). Additionally, the pilot accepted the CEO's statement that the Pauanui runway would be suitable for the planned flight without checking the performance charts (""The pilot accepted the CEO's statement that the Pauanui runway would be suitable for the planned flight, and did not check the performance charts"" (4.3.4)).
","0.0","15.0","The pilot's lack of understanding of the variables of aeroplane performance and the failure to calculate the actual performance using the weight and environmental conditions on the day of the flight suggest deficiencies in training and competency. The pilot check and training programme did not ensure that all pilots were appropriately qualified to operate into all aerodromes shown in the airline's exposition (""Systemic deficiencies within the management of the Great Barrier Airlines operation contributed to the aeroplane overrunning the runway at Pauanui. These deficiencies included: the pilot check and training programme did not ensure that all pilots were appropriately qualified to operate into all aerodromes shown in the airline's exposition"" (5.8)).
","0.0","0.0","The document does not provide evidence that a lack of training and familiarity with equipment was a factor in the incident.
","0.0","1.667","The document does not provide evidence that crew resource management was a factor in the incident.
","2.887","15.0","The pilot did not use all of the available runway and did not use the appropriate technique for a successful take-off, indicating a lack of adherence to safety procedures. Additionally, the pilot and airline did not calculate the actual weight and balance of the aeroplane prior to the flight, which is a critical safety procedure (""Neither the pilot nor Great Barrier Airlines had calculated the actual weight and balance of the aeroplane prior to the flight"" (5.2)).
","0.0","18.333","The culture of acceptance of non-conforming practices within Great Barrier Airlines, as indicated by external audits in the 3 years preceding the Pauanui incident, contributed to the incident. There was uncertainty around the allocation of responsibilities between senior managers and pilots in the airline, and internal audits had failed to identify frequent non-compliance with the airline's standard operating procedures (""A culture of acceptance of non-conforming practices existed within the Great Barrier Airlines operation, in spite of external audits in the 3 years preceding the Pauanui incident having indicated that this was a safety issue"" (5.9)).
","2.887","10.0","The airline's failure to consider whether its aeroplanes complied with the equivalent single wheel load at the aerodromes it used, and the aerodrome operator's lack of knowledge about the maximum equivalent single wheel load values and the effects of subsurface irrigation on runway strength, indicate deficiencies in risk management and analysis (""Great Barrier Airlines had not considered whether its aeroplanes complied with the equivalent single wheel load at the aerodromes it used"" (5.6), ""The aerodrome operator did not know the origin of the published maximum equivalent single wheel load values and had not determined the effects of subsurface irrigation on the runway strength"" (5.7)).
","0.0","15.0","The CAA had recurring concerns for the management and standard of operations at Great Barrier Airlines during the 3 years prior to this incident, but the actions taken to address those concerns had been largely ineffective. The CAA should have taken more decisive action to address the serious safety concerns identified in consecutive audits (""The CAA should have taken more decisive action to address the serious safety concerns identified in consecutive audits. Had it done so, and required Great Barrier Airlines to take prompt and effective action to correct audit findings, the Pauanui incident might not have occurred"" (5.10)).
","0.0","3.333","The pilot's lack of situational awareness, as evidenced by not fully understanding the variables of aeroplane performance and the conditions required for a maximum-performance take-off, contributed to the incident (""Her expectation that the take-off performance at Pauanui would be similar to what she was used to at North Shore indicated that she did not fully understand the variables of aeroplane performance"" (4.2.16)).
","2.887","0.0","There is no evidence in the document that suggests emergency response preparedness was a factor in the incident.
","0.0","0.0","The document states that ""The weather conditions were not a factor. The aeroplane take-off configuration was correct and there was no evidence that any aeroplane technical factor contributed to the incident"" (4.2.1), indicating that maintenance and inspection regimes were not a contributing factor.
","0.0","0.0","There is no mention in the document of automation being a factor in the incident.
","0.0","0.0","The document explicitly states that ""The weather conditions were not a factor"" in the incident (4.2.1).
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence in the document that suggests communication breakdown was a factor in the incident.
","0.0","1.667","All contributing factors to the incident have been addressed within the predefined safety themes. There is no need to add an ""Other"" category based on the information provided in the document.","2.887","true","N/A"
