"2011_105","[8  9  10  11  12  13]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the incident in the provided document. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the accident.
","0.0","40.0","The train controller made critical errors, including a wrong assumption about the limits of the work area, which led to the misrouting of the freight train (""he thought that the limits of the work area and closed section of track extended only as far as Wiri Junction because he did not check his train control diagram"" (5.1)). Additionally, the train controller did not apply the required control blocking to signals preventing trains from entering the work area (""he did not apply the required control blocking to signals preventing trains from entering the work area"" (5.1)).
","0.0","10.0","While the document does not explicitly mention a lack of training or competency as a contributing factor, the errors made by the train controller and the train driver's hesitation to challenge the controller suggest potential gaps in training, particularly in the areas of safety procedures and crew resource management (""The train driver had the opportunity to avert the potential collision between his train and the mobile crane by challenging the train controller's information"" (5.3)).
","0.0","0.0","There is no information in the document suggesting that a lack of training or familiarity with equipment contributed to the incident. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the accident.
","0.0","15.0","The train driver's failure to challenge the train controller's incorrect routing decision indicates a deficiency in crew resource management practices (""The train driver did not challenge the train controller when told by him that his train was routed to cross over onto what he had known was a section of track closed for maintenance work"" (4.4)).
","0.0","15.0","The train controller's failure to apply control blocking as required by safety procedures directly contributed to the incident (""he did not apply the required control blocking to signals preventing trains from entering the work area"" (5.1)). Additionally, the lack of a cross-check confirmation requirement in KiwiRail's rules was a procedural oversight that allowed the error to go undetected (""The train controller's errors went unnoticed for more than 2 hours because KiwiRail's rules for track closure permits did not require the person-in-charge to confirm with the train controller that control blocking had been applied to protect the work area"" (5.2)).
","0.0","5.0","The document suggests that there may have been a lack of a robust safety culture, as indicated by the presence of unauthorized visitors in the train control cubicle, contrary to company rules (""it is of concern that family and members of the public were allowed to visit train control contrary to company rules"" (4.2.7)).
","0.0","5.0","The absence of a cross-check confirmation process for control blocking indicates a gap in risk management practices that could have mitigated the risk of human error (""KiwiRail's general rule for track closure permits did not require a cross-check confirmation between a train controller and a person in charge of a work site that control blocking protection for the work area had been applied"" (4.3)).
","0.0","0.0","The document does not provide information on regulatory oversight or compliance issues as contributing factors to the incident. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the accident.
","0.0","8.333","The train controller's incorrect mental model of the work area limits and the train driver's lack of action when given incorrect routing information indicate a lack of situational awareness (""At some time during that 2 hours and 20 minutes the train controller developed a mind-set that the work area and closed section of track ended at Wiri Junction"" (4.2.4), ""The train driver said later that he was 'alarmed' when he was told by the train controller that the route had been set for his train to cross over to the northbound track at Wiri Junction"" (4.4.3)).
","2.887","0.0","There is no mention of emergency response preparedness or its impact on the incident in the provided document. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not indicate that maintenance or inspection regimes were factors in the incident. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is no mention of automation or its role in the incident in the provided document. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","Weather conditions are not mentioned as a factor in the incident. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the accident.
","0.0","1.667","While there was a failure to communicate effectively, it was more related to the train driver not challenging the train controller rather than a breakdown in communication systems or processes. Therefore, this theme is not directly applicable to the accident.
","2.887","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the document that contributed to the accident outside of those already listed.","0.0","true","N/A"
