"2019_203","[10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the accident in the document, so it is not possible to attribute any percentage to fatigue management.
","0.0","5.0","The crew's lack of awareness of the load being applied to the foot wire and the absence of turnbuckles for manual tension adjustment suggest that there may have been assumptions made about the safety of the operation without verifying the actual conditions (3.12, 3.15). This contributed to the accident by not properly assessing the situation and the equipment's limitations.
","0.0","15.0","The crew had completed the task of securing logs numerous times before, and both the chief officer and the boatswain overseeing the operation had considerable experience (3.3). However, the crew were unaware of the maximum securing load of the foot wire and the risk of inadvertently exceeding the breaking load (3.12). This indicates a gap in training and competency regarding the understanding of equipment limitations and operational procedures, which contributed to the accident.
","0.0","5.0","The crew's lack of familiarity with the maximum securing load of the foot wire and the proper configuration of securing equipment, including the use of turnbuckles, suggests a gap in training and familiarity with the equipment that was critical to the operation's safety (3.12, 3.15).
","0.0","5.0","There is insufficient information in the document to directly attribute the accident to a failure in Crew Resource Management. However, the lack of pre-work safety meetings suggests that there may have been a missed opportunity for crew members to work together to identify and mitigate risks (3.17).
","0.0","20.0","The vessel's cargo securing manual did not record the maximum securing load of the foot wire, and the crew were unaware of this value (3.12). Additionally, the crew did not use turnbuckles as shown in the guidance material, which would have allowed manual tension adjustment and reduced the likelihood of overloading the foot wire (3.15). The failure to adhere to safety procedures and guidance material was a significant factor in the accident.
","0.0","20.0","The operator's safety management system was not supported by an effective safety assessment of log-cargo-securing operations, which should have identified the hazards present (3.18). The absence of routine pre-work safety meetings or 'toolbox talks' on board the Coresky OL (3.17) indicates a lack of a strong safety culture that emphasizes the importance of safety and risk awareness.
","0.0","15.0","The operator's safety management system required the crew to undertake an initial risk assessment before securing the deck log cargo. However, significant hazards such as the potential for wires under tension to part were not identified (3.28). The lack of a fulsome risk assessment by the operator for log-securing operations likely contributed to the crew not identifying this hazard during their risk assessments or implementing appropriate mitigations (3.29).
","0.0","10.0","The vessel was using an out-of-date IMO Code of Safe Practice for Ships Carrying Timber Deck Cargoes from 1991, despite a more current version being adopted in 2011 (3.20). The failure to update the code and incorporate amendments that would have made the operation safer indicates a lack of compliance with current regulations, which contributed to the accident (3.25).
","0.0","2.5","The crew's lack of awareness regarding the load being applied to the foot wire and the absence of turnbuckles for manual tension adjustment indicate a lack of situational awareness. This lack of awareness increased the risk of inadvertently exceeding the breaking load of the foot wire (3.12, 3.15).
","3.536","0.0","The document does not provide information on emergency response preparedness or its role in the accident, so it is not possible to attribute any percentage to this theme.
","0.0","0.0","The crane and its rigging were found to be in good working order (4.2), and the breaking strength of the parted foot wire had not been significantly reduced since its manufacture (3.10). Therefore, maintenance and inspection regimes do not appear to have contributed to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is no mention of automation or its role in the accident within the document, so it is not possible to attribute any percentage to the use of automation.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not mention weather conditions affecting the operation or decision-making process, so it is not possible to attribute any percentage to this theme.
","0.0","2.5","There is no specific mention of communication breakdown contributing to the accident in the document, so it is not possible to attribute any percentage to this theme.
","3.536","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the document that contributed to the accident outside of the predefined themes.","0.0","true","N/A"
