Investigation Report
The Sinking of the Fishing Vessel Insung I 
by Korean Maritime Safety Korean Maritime Safety Korean Maritime Safety Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal TribunalTribunalTribunal
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal The investigation that is the subject of this report was cond ucted in 
conformity with the Act on the Investigation and Inquiry int o Marine 
Accidents, with the purpose of improving the safety of ships by investigating 
marine casualties and other incidents. 
The sole objective of this investigation is to prevent futur e accidents and 
malfunctions by providing requisite information and expla nations based on the 
ascertainment of the causes and circumstances of the shipwr eck that is the 
subject of this report. As such, this investigation did not s eek to determine 
the faults, liabilities or claims that may have been or will b e possibly at 
issue. 
Therefore, this report ought not to be be used in any formal pr oceedings, 
either in courts of law or before the Maritime Board of Korea.
Issued by: 
Marine Casualty Investigation Team of the Korean Maritime S afety Tribunal 
9F, 175 Soonhwa-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-773, Republic of K orea 
Director General: Capt. Lee Yong 
Phone: +82-2-3674-6241 / Fax: +82-2-3674-6239 
E-mail: kmst_special@korea. krwww.kmst.go.kr 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal Table of Contents Table of Contents Table of Contents Table of Contents 
1. Summary 1
2. Facts 2
2.1 Ship Information 2
2.2 General Facts about the Insung I and Its Management 2
2.3 Ship Structure and Loading Capacity 3
2.4 Safety Management 6
2.5 Crew Makeup and Management 6
2.6 Weather Conditions 8
3. Details of Accident 9
3.1 Sailing Conditions 9
3.2 Casualties 12 
4. Casualty Analysis 13 
4.1 The Loss of the Ship's Stability 13 
4.2 Other Factors 17 
4.3 Main Cause of Death 22 
4.4 Ship Evacuation 23 
4.5 Follow-up by the KRS 24 
5. Conclusion 25 
6. Lessons Learned 26 
7. Safety Action 28 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal 1. Summary 
On December 9, 2010, the Insung I and a dozen or so other fishin g vessels were on 
their way to Zones H, I, and K, having finished fishing in Zone B of Trench 88-1 that is 
part of the waters governed by the Convention for the Conserv ation of Antarctic Marine 
Living Resources (CCAMLR). Seawater began to flow into the I nsung I, through the 
trawling door as well as the door to the passageway that was us ed to move the fishing 
gear along. As the seawater reached the front processing are a (i.e.k an area at the bow 
reserved for processing fish) and inside the passageway, th e vessel was overturned on its 
starboard and eventually sank at 06:25, on December 13, 2010 , 1,158 miles away from the 
Campbell Island off the southern coast of New Zealand, in lat itude 63 degrees 19 minutes 
52 seconds south, and longitude 160 degrees 15 minutes 25 sec onds west. 
The sinking of the Insung I resulted in the death of 5 of the 42 c rewmembers, and 
the missing of 16, including the captain and one Korean obser ver. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal 2. Facts 
2.2 General Facts about the Insung I and Its Management 
Completed by Miho Shipbuilding of Japan and first launched f rom Jung-gu, Busan, on 
August 20, 1979, the Insung I was a pelagic fishing vessel des igned for catching fish 
using anchored reels with hooks and fish traps. 50.45 meters long, 10.00 meters wide, and 
4.35 meters deep, the ship weighed 614.00 tons in total, and w as equipped with one main 
diesel engine, with a maximum continuous output of 1,323 kil owatts. 
Dongyang Susan Corporation, the first owner of the ship, ori ginally named it the 707 
Bonanza. It was Insung Corporation, which acquired the ship on June 15, 2005, that 
rechristened it with the name, Insung I. 
The ship was registered with the Korean Register of Shipping (KRS) on May 15, 1998. 
In order to render the ship suitable for sailing in the Polar R egions, the ship's owner had 
the ship's structure reformed during the period from March 1 3, 1999, through May 4, 1999, 
with part of the existing superstructure (extending from th e stern to the front of the 
wheelhouse) removed as a result. Although the company submi tted a stability report on the Name Insung I 
Ports of Registration Busan (South Korea) and China. 
Owner Insung Corporation 
Total Tonnage 614 tons 
Date Keel Laid August 20, 1979. 
Shipbuilder Miho Shipbuilding (Japan). 
Engine Type / 
Output 1 diesel engine / 1,323 kilowatts. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal details of the renovation and had them approved by the KRS, th e plans submitted did not 
accurately reflect the actual design and layout of the renov ated ship. 
Around 12:00 on July 10, 2000, during a fishing voyage when th e ship was still 
owned by Dongyang Susan Corporation, large quantities of se awater flowed into the vessel 
through the trawling door, significantly threatening the s hip's stability. The passageway for 
moving fishing gear was submerged under water, as was the whe elhouse, when the ship 
began to heel to starboard. 
It was impossible for the crew to steer the ship out of the acci dent on its own. The 
ship's crew requested help from another fishing vessel that was engaged in fishing nearby. 
All the sailors were rescued. The vessel that came to their re scue approached the tilting 
ship's starboard, fixed the ship's hull, and drained water o ut of it for three days using a 
diving pump and other such devices. After the ship had its dam aged parts repaired, it went 
on fishing again. Insung Corporation, at the time of purchas ing the vessel on June 15, 
2005, did not have knowledge of this prior accident. 
Insung obtained the license from the Korean Minister of Food , Agriculture, Forestry, 
and Fisheries on November 24 to deploy the ship for pelagic fi shing, using anchored reels 
with hooks, from December 1, 2010, through November 30, 2011 , in limited zones. These 
zones included the Atlantic Ocean, the Indian Ocean, and the zones of the Antaractic Ocean 
subject to the Convention for the CCAMLR, i.e., Trenches 88- 1, 88-2, and 58.4.1. 
2.3 Ship Structure and Loading Capacity 
The Insung I was a center-bridge ship. As the diagram below sh ows, the lower part of 
its upper deck consisted of a forepeak tank (FPT) at the bow, f ollowed by fish storage 
areas 1, 2, and 3, an engine room, and an afterpeak tank (APT) a t the stern. Below the 
fish storage areas and on both sides of the engine room were do uble bottom tanks storing 
ballast water. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal On the upper deck were a bow deck, a front processing area (nei ghboring the trawling 
door on the starboard), a processing room, a freezer room, a c afeteria, a storage area for 
fishing gear at the stern, and a passageway (23.65 meter long , 2.0 meter wide) along the 
starboard through which the fishing gear was moved. 
The superstructure housed a windlass and a derrick at the fro nt. The crewmembers' 
quarters extended between the middle and the back of the deck . Above the quarters were 
the wheelhouse as well as a space for storing the fishing gear and sinkers. 
The ship's summer load line draft was 4.22 meters. Its freebo ard was 41 centimeters 
long. Its light displacement amounted to 898.3 tons, with a c onstant of 23.7 tons. The 
ship's hatch was 1.5 meter wide, while its coaming rose 30 cen timeters above the upper 
deck. The bottom of the hatch extended 71 centimeters along t he summer load line draft. 
Hence, if the ship were to be subjected starboard to tides ris ing 1.42 meters high or above, 
the seawater could have easily gotten inside it through the t rawling door. Accordingly, 
Insung sought to prevent the penetration of seawater into th e ship by installing a shutter, 
1.7 meters in width and 1.0 meter in length, over the trawling door, which had to remain 
shut whenever the ship was sailing. 
The passageway for the fishing gear was located near the traw ling door in the middle 
of the ship body. Because the passageway was slightly tilted to the bow of the ship by 1 
to 2 degrees, seawater, once inside the ship, would have accu mulated at the bow of the 
ship. Accordingly, the bow was installed with an electric di ving pump, capable of draining 
4 tons of water per hour, which was designed to start working a utomatically if it detected 
seawater around it. However, the pump at times failed to work properly. The passageway 
was connected to the processing room, the cafeteria, and the fish storage area at the back 
of the ship by opening-out doors. These doors, however, were not completely watertight. 
The doors on the upper deck had doorsills of about 50 centimet ers in height. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal Layouts of the Insung I 
On either side of the front processing area on the upper deck w ere three freeing ports, 
85 centimeters high and 51 centimeters wide each. Each port w as equipped with a 
non-return valve. The freeing ports were designed to discha rge seawater out of the ship, 
preventing the water from reaching inside the cabin. The bot tom of each freeing port 
extended about 50 centimeters down the summer load line draf t. 
In terms of the daily marine diesel oil (MDO) consumption, th e ship required 6 
kiloliters during sailing and 3.7 kiloliters during fishin g per day. The ship also daily 
consumed 53.6 liters and 45.0 liters of the lubricant oil (LO ), respectively, during sailing 
and fishing. Its water purifier generated 4.5 to 5.0 tons of c lean water per day. The clean 
water tank was capable of storing up to 10 tons of water. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal 2.4 Safety Management 
Insung Corporation operated 14 fishing vessels at the time o f the accident, including 
the Insung I. The company distributed copies of "The Regulat ion for the Safety of Fishing 
Vessels" (Joeobseon Anjeon Suchik) to all the ships it owned . Written in Korean, the 
Safety Regulation provided the rules and requirements for t he crew to observe before 
departing, during sailing, during fishing, during bad weat her conditions, in emergency 
situations, in entering and mooring at ports, and so on. 
The user's manual on how to use the expandable rescue boats, t he fire escape route 
guideline, and the sample fire drill layout accompanying ea ch copy of the Safety Regulation 
were written either in both Korean and English, or in English only. The checklists for 
safety inspection of each part and device on the ship that wer e included in the Safety 
Regulation required each ship's crew to inspect their ship a nd devices three times a month 
(on the 
10th,20th,and30thdayseach)andreporttheresultstothec ompany.Thecrewwasalsorequiredtoconducttrai 
ningonhowtousefireextinguishersandevacuatetheshipth reetimesamonth.ThecrewoftheInsung I, for 
its part, also reported the completion of the fire extinguis hing, escaping, and emergency 
training on November 30 and December 10, 2010. 
2.5 Crew Makeup and Management 
The Insung I had 40 sailors, including a captain, two deck off icers, three engine 
officers, and 34 staff members, as well as two observers (one Russian, the other Korean). 
Seven of the crewmembers, including the captain and the cook , were Korean. The 
remaining 33 included eight Chinese sailors, eleven Indone sian sailors, eleven Vietnamese 
sailors, and three Filipino sailors. The ship's owner, howe ver, believed that it employed ten 
Indonesians and twelve Vietnamese at the time. 
The 33 non-Korean crewmembers for the ship were recruited vi a the six hiring 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal agencies of Insung, including Panworld (13), the Korea Over seas Fisheries Association (1), 
Changman (3), Hwayoung Trading (9), Hanjin (3), and Noah Int ernational (4). The Chinese 
sailors, who were of the Korean descent, were able to speak Ko rean, but not English. The 
Filipinos spoke English, but not Korean. The Indonesians sp oke a very limited English. The 
Vietnamese sailors spoke neither of the two languages. 
The captain, born in 1965, held a Class 3 license for work on fi shing vessels. He had 
worked as a captain on pelagic fishing vessels for thirteen y ears. Prior to joining the 
Insung I, he had worked once on the CCAMLR-governed waters fo r about three months. 
He joined the Insung I on August 17, 2010. 
Chief officer A was born in 1964, and worked as deckhand and qu artermaster from 
August 1990 through August 1999 on pelagic fishing ships. Fr om December 1999 until 
October 2010, A worked as first and second officer, with a Cla ss 4 license, on a number 
of pelagic fishing vessels. He came onboard the Insung I on Oc tober 22, 2010, with a 
Class 4 license for work on merchant ships. 
B, the other chief officer, was born in 1977. He held a Class 4 l icense for work on 
fishing vessels, and had been working onboard the Insung I si nce July 20, 2010. 
The chief engineer, born in 1957, held a Class 3 engineer lice nse, and started working 
onboard the Insung I on July 20, 2010. 
One of the two first engineers, A, was born in 1962 and held a Cl ass 6 engineer 
license. He began working onboard the Insung I on October 24, 2007. 
B, the other first engineer, was born in 1966 and also held a Cl ass 6 engineer license. 
He began working onboard the Insung I on December 8, 2007. 
C, a Chinese sailor, did not hold any license to work as a marin e technician. 
Nevertheless, he embarked the ship on September 11, 2007, as a deckhand at the time of 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal the accident. Having worked as a third officer for some time, he became a second officer 
as of August 2010. 
D and E, both Filipinos, began working onboard the Insung I as deckhands on July 1, 
2008. At the time of the accident, however, they were also wor ked as apprentice offier and 
engineer, respectively. 
Chief officers A and B and deckhand C kept the navigational wa tch on the bridge, for 
16 hours on end per shift. Each shift involved two of these men working together. 
Keeping the navigational watch on the engine were first engi ne officers A (11:30 ~ 
17:30 and 23:30 ~ 05:30) and B (05:30 ~ 11:30 and 17:30 ~ 23:30) , who switched their 
shifts every six hours. Deckhand E worked alongside first en gine officer B. 
2.6 Weather Conditions 
The sky was overcast and the visual range was 6 miles or so at th e time of the 
accident. A westerly-southwesterly wind was blowing at 10 t o 13 meters per second. The 
seawater temperature was around 0 to -1 Celsius degree, whil e the tides rose 3.0 meters in 
height above the surface of the sea. Sailors on 
Navigational Watch 
(Bridge) Watch Hours 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 
Chief Officer A 06:00 ～ 14:00 ～
Chief Officer B 14:00 ～22:00 
～
Deckhand C 06:00 22:00 ～
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal 3. Details of Accident 
3.1 Sailing Conditions 
At the time the Insung I departed the Port of Montevideo, Urug uay, at around 18:00 
(WST -3 hours) on November 2, 2010, it was carrying 547 kiloli ters of MDO, 16.5 
kiloliters of LO, Captain Yu Yeong-seob, 39 sailors (7 Korea ns, 8 Chinese, 11 Indonesians, 
11 Vietnamese, and 3 Filipinos), and 2 observers (1 Russian, 1 Korean). The ship was 
headed for Zone B of Trench 88-1, in the waters governed by the Convention for the 
Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCMALR ). 
On November 5, the ship received an additional 25 kiloliters of fuel, and arrived at 
Zone B of Trench 88-1 at around 16:00 (WST +11 hours; the follo wing indications of time 
are all in the World Standard Time) on November 30. The crew be gan fishing the 
following day, December 1. Zones B, C, and G of the same trench also had ten or so 
other fishing vessels working, including three Korean vess els aside from the Insung I; that 
is, the 707 Hongjin, and the Jeongwooho II and III. The combin ed quota for all the fishing 
vessels in the area was 372 tons of tooth fish. 
The Insung I caught approximately 39 tons of tooth fish (37.3 5 tons without heads) 
until December 9, having relocated to another spot within Zo ne B on December 4. With 
the fish stored in the ship's fish storage area no. 2, the ship had to move, along with the 
dozen other ships, to Zones H, I, and K in Trench 88-1, when the y filled the quota. 
After finishing the fishing tasks on water at 09:00 on Decemb er 9, in latitude 63 
degrees 54 minutes south and longitude 175 degrees 21 minute s east, the Insung I set out 
for Zones H, I, and K of Trench 88-1. Because of ice floes on the way, the ship had to 
take a circuitous route until arriving at the destination. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal While the Insung I sailed to Zones H, I, and K, the ship's trawl ing door shutter and 
the bow-side door to the passageway for fishing gear were lef t open. Fish storage area no. 
2 was carrying approximately 39 tons of tooth fish; fish stor age area no. 3 was carrying 
approximately 100 tons of frozen squid (to be used as bait); a nd fish storage area no. 4 
had approximately 10 tons of food. In addition, the ship was a lso carrying 36 tons of reels 
with hooks (1,000 baskets on the deck above the front process ing area; 700 baskets on the 
rear deck; 1,500 baskets on the deck above the crewmembers' q uarters; at 70m/basket, 
80kg/500m), as well as 38 tons of fishing sinkers for sinking the reels (2,000 units on the 
deck of the front processing area; 5,000 to 6,000 units on the rear deck; at 5kg/unit), and 
2,500 to 3,000 meters of the buoy line (18mm in diameter, stor ed on the rear deck and 
the deck above the crewmembers' quarters). 
The Insung I was sailing in fleet with the 707 Hongjin, leadin g the latter by about 3 
miles. As of 20:06 on November 11, the Insung I was sailing at a speed of 10.5 to 11.0 
knots, in latitude 62 degrees 50 minutes south and longitude 172 degrees 53 minutes west, 
along a course of 090 degrees. First officer A climbed to the b ridge at about 14:00 on 
December 12 to change navigational watch shift with the othe r first officer, B, and served 
the duty with deckhand C. A was again on duty from 22:00 onward that day, along with 
B. 
A was told to report to the captain whenever he spotted an ice f loe while on his 
navigational watch. At about 05:00 (WST +12 hours applies to the subsequent indications of 
time) the next day, December 13, A reported to the captain the ice floe signal he received. 
The captain climbed to the bridge at about 05:10 that day, che cked the ice floe signal 
himself, and changed the course from 090 degrees to 135 degre es at about 05:20, with the 
intent to arrive at the destination spot early. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal After changing the course, the ship underwent tides that wer e 3 meters high and a 
westerly-southwesterly wind blowing at a velocity of 10 ~ 13 meters per second from the 
3 to 4 o'clock direction. Amid these conditions, seawater be gan to flow into the front 
processing area and the passageway for fishing gear through the trawling door shutter and 
the passageway door that had been left open. 
First officer A left the bridge at 5:50, after changing shift with first officer B when 
deckhand C appeared on the bridge. At the time the shift was ch anged, there were the 
captain, first officer B, and deckhand C inside the bridge. 
At 06:00, deckhand C noticed that the hull was heeling about 1 0 degrees to starboard, 
and rolling about 2 degrees along port. He also saw on the clos ed-circuit TV that seawater 
had reached inside the passageway for fishing gear. He repor ted thusly to the captain. 
Upon receiving the report, the captain ordered C to contact t he engine room 
immediately and have the fuel moved from the starboard to the port of the ship. The 
captain also told other crewmembers, who were resting, to mo ve the fishing sinkers that 
had been stored on the rear deck from the starboard to the port of the ship. 
Deckhand C checked the passageway again at 06:05, and notice d that the diving pump 
was not working, even though the seawater had risen to 30 cent imeters above the floor. 
An increasing quantity of seawater kept flowing into the pas sageway for fishing gear, 
flooding it out by 06:15. A large quantity of seawater then re ached the inside of the ship, 
reaching the fishing gear storage area at the stern as well as the engine room. 
Chief officer A, who had been sleeping in his quarters, woke u p, sensing something 
dangerous was afoot, and climbed to the bridge at about 06:20 . The captain ordered A to 
steer rightward so that the bow would face lee side. He contac ted, via the VHF radio, the 
707 Hongjin that was following behind, requesting emergenc y rescue by shouting: "The 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal ship is about to be overturned!" Shortly afterward, all the a larms on the bridge went off 
and the main engine was stopped. 
After stopping the sailors from relocating the fishing sink ers, the captain ordered them 
to climb to the bridge. Deckhand Choi Gyeong-guk woke up the s ailors who were resting 
in their quarters, and distributed life jackets. The hull wa s overturned on starboard at 06:25 
on December 13, 2010, in latitude 63 degrees 19 minutes 52 sec onds south and longitude 
160 degrees 15 minutes 25 seconds west, about 1,158 miles awa y from the Campbell 
Island, off the southern coast of New Zealand. At the time, th e ship was still carrying 350 
tons of MDO, 14.4 tons of LO, and 10 tons of clean water. 
The two rescue boats that had been attached to the starboard o f the ship were 
automatically released and expanded when the ship was overt urned. When these boats 
appeared above water about 10 meters from the ship, the sailo rs jumped into the water and 
swam to the boats. Some of them, however, were swept up by the t ides. Others also had 
difficulty escaping the ship because they were trapped by th e reels and buoy lines floating 
over the sea. About two or three minutes after the ship was ove rturned, it began to sink at 
the stern. 
The 707 Hongjin that had been following the Insung I about 3 mi les behind it arrived 
at the scene of accident and immediately rescued 9 sailors an d the Russian observer from 
the water. The ship also came to rescue the 11 sailors on the tw o rescue boats. One of the 
21 rescued crewmembers, however, died due to hypothermia. 
3.2 Casualties 
In addition to the Insung I completely sinking, 5 of the 42 cre wmembers died and 16 
went missing, including the captain and the Korean observer . 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal 4. Casualty Analysis 
4. Casualty Analysis 
4.1 The Loss of the Ship's Stability 
A) Displacement Tonnage and Drafts 
Taking into account the weights of MDO, fishing gear, and fis h the vessel was 
carrying at the time of the accident, its displacement tonna ge must have amounted to 
approximately 1,510 tons. The ship's drafts, calculated on the basis of the available stability 
data, are estimated to have been 3.00 meters at the bow, 5.60 m eters at the stern, and 4.30 
meters on average. 
B) Seawater's Movement through the Trawling door and the Pas sageway for Fishing Gear 
(1) The Trawling door 
The bottom of the trawling door reached 71 centimeters along the summer load line 
draft. This meant that, if the ship were to be subjected starb oard to tides rising 1.42 meters 
high or above, the seawater could have easily gotten inside i t through the trawling door. 
As a result, a shutter, 1.7 meters in width and 1.0 meter in len gth, was installed over the 
trawling door, which had to remain shut whenever the ship was on sail. 
The shutter, however, was left open while the ship was sailin g to Zones H, I, and K 
after it finished catching fish in Zone B of Trench 88-1 on Dec ember 9, 2010. The sea 
tides rising 3 meters in height and the westerly-southweste rly wind blowing at 10 ~ 13 
meters per second from the 5 to 6 o'clock direction were manag eable for the ship when it 
stayed on the course of 090 degrees. When it changed the cours e to 135 degrees, however, 
it was subjected to the wind blowing from the 3 to 4 o'clock dir ection, which widened the 
opening of the trawling door shutter and forced the seawater into the ship. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal (2) The Bow-side Door to the Passageway for Fishing Gear 
The ship had a passageway on its upper deck along the starboar d. The passageway was 
equipped with a conveyor belt, which was used to move the fish ing gear (i.e., reels, fishing 
sinkers, etc.) from the upper deck to the fishing gear storag e area near the stern during the 
fishing periods. The door to the passageway near the bow was t hus left open while the 
sailors were working on fishing. In bad weather conditions, however, the door had to 
remain shut because, otherwise, the seawater that had reach ed the upper deck through the 
trawling door could reach the passageway as well. 
The door, however, was left open while the ship was sailing to Zones H, I, and K on 
December 9, 2010, after it finished catching fish in Zone B of Trench 88-1. Consequently, 
the seawater that came in through the trawling door flowed in to the passageway via the 
upper deck, with the stern trim. 
(3) The Diving Pump in the Passageway for Fishing Gear 
The passageway for fishing gear was slightly tilted, 1 ~ 2 deg rees, so that seawater 
that flowed into it would accumulate at the bow. For near the b ow in the passageway was 
an electric diving pump, capable of discharging 4 tons of wat er per hour. The pump was 
supposed to turn on automatically and start pumping out wate r. This pump, however, had a 
history of not working properly from time to time. At the time of the accident, it again 
failed to work. 
C) The Overturning of the Ship 
The Insung I started sailing to another spot of fishing on Dec ember 9, 2010, with the 
trawling door shutter and the bow-side door of its passagewa y for fishing gear left open, 
when the draft reached 3.00 meters at the bow, 5.60 meters at t he stern, and 4.30 meters 
on average. The ship managed to stay afloat when it was sailin g along the course of 090 
degrees, notwithstanding the sea tides rising as high as 3 me ters and the 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal westerly-southwesterly wind blowing from the 5 to 6 o'clock direction at 13 meters per 
second. After it changed its course to 135 degrees at 05:20 on December 13, 2010, 
however, it faced the wind blowing from the 3 to 4 o'clock dire ction, with the seawater 
forced into the vessel through the trawling door that had bee n left open. While the 
seawater could have been discharged via the freeing ports on the upper deck, it instead 
flowed into the passageway for fishing gear, where the broke n diving pump failed to 
discharge it out of the vessel. Accordingly, the ship began t o tilt to starboard. The seawater 
that had flowed into the passageway finally reached and floo ded the fishing gear storage 
area at the stern as well as the engine room, eventually overt urning the ship. 
It is important now to examine the factors that affected the t ilt and stability of the 
ship's hull when seawater flowed through its trawling door a nd passageway for fishing 
gear. 
(1) Freeing Ports on the Upper Deck 
The Insung I had three freeing ports (each 0.85 meter long and 0.51 meter high) on 
either side of its upper deck. The bottom of each freeing port reached 0.50 meter along the 
summer load line draft (4.22 meters). At the time of the accid ent, however, given the 
average draft of 4.30 meters, the bottom of each freeing port was likely to have been 
dangling 0.42 meter above the sea surface. Assuming that the freeing ports on at least one 
side work properly when the ship rolls, these ports would dis charge 341 tons of water per 
minute. 
Area of freeing ports  
Displacement tonnage  ×  ×  
tons 
If the ship's hull were to heel to its starboard in about 10.5 d egrees, because of the 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal seawater that had reached the passageway through the trawli ng door, the freeing ports on 
the starboard would be completely submerged under water, an d thus unable to work 
properly in stopping the countercurrents. In the meantime, seawater would continue to flow 
into the vessel through these freeing ports. This is what hap pened to the Insung I. 
(2) Influx of Seawater through the Trawling Door 
The hatch of the Insung I was 1.5 meter wide, with a coaming tha t arose about 30 
centimeters above the upper deck. The bottom of the trawling door extended 65 centimeters 
down the summer load line draft (4.22 meters). As the average draft for the vessel was 
4.30 meters at the time of the accident, and the vessel was sub jected to tides that were 3 
meters in height along its starboard, the ship's trawling do or was likely to have been 
exposed to seawater as high as 0.93 meter, assuming 50% of the tidal height (i.e., 1.5 
meter). 
Area of freeing ports  
Influx tonnage  ×  ×  
tons 
Considering the frequency and shape of the tides, about a qua rter of the influx tonnage, 
i.e., approximately 92 tons, as calculated above, is likely to have flown into the vessel at 
the beginning of the accident. As more and more seawater flow ed into the vessel via the 
trawling door and the passageway for fishing gear, the ship w as increasingly heeling to its 
starboard, with the amount of seawater present inside it gro wing at an exponential rate. 
(3) Permeation of the Passageway by Seawater 
Around 06:00 on the day of the accident, the Insung I was rolli ng 2 degrees on port 
and on 10 degrees on starboard. The passageway for fishing ge ar was about 20 to 30 
centimeters deep in seawater by 06:05. In other words, 12 ton s of water had already 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal infiltrated the passageway (23.65 meters long, 2.0 meters w ide, 0.25 meter deep) by 06:05, 
tilting the ship to starboard by 3 ~ 4 degrees as a result. 
As 36 tons or so of seawater infiltrated the passageway, the s hip tilted to its starboard 
by 10 degrees or so. With the passageway completely submerge d under water, the speed at 
which seawater flowed into the rest of the ship's cabin incre ased dramatically, with the 
water chiefly affecting the fishing gear storage area at the stern (capacity: 174) as well as 
the engine room (capacity: 378) through their non-watertig ht doors. 
(4) Stowage of the Fishing Gear 
On its way to Zones H, I, and K of Trench 88-1 on December 9, 2010 , the Insung I 
was carrying approximately 36 tons of reels with hooks on the upper deck above the front 
processing area as well as the rear deck and the deck above the crewmembers' quarters. It 
was also carrying approximately 38 tons of fishing sinkers o n the deck above the front 
processing area and the rear deck, as well as 2,500 to 3,000 me ters of buoy line (18mm in 
diameter) on the rear deck and the deck above the crewmembers ' quarters. Although the 
ship should have, in principle, stored the fishing gear and t he fishing sinkers in the fish 
storage areas, it chose to keep them on the upper deck and abov e the crewmembers' 
quarters that were located above the ship's center of gravit y. This decision, however, 
greatly compromised the ship's stability and hence left it t hat much more vulnerable to the 
accident. 
4.2 Other Factors 
A) Surrounding Environment 
The CCAMLR-governed region where the accident occurred is f ound between latitude 
60 degrees south and latitude 80 degrees south, amid the Anta rctic (Southern) Ocean. The 
absence of landmass around this ocean makes it rather diffic ult to determine its precise 
boundaries. In general, the region is thought to encompass t he area of ocean around latitude 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal 60 degrees south, with a distinct ecosystem achieved by the A ntarctic circumpolar current. 
The fisheries in this area are open to exploitation from Dece mber to February the next 
year, during which period of time ice tends to melt. Fishing v essels then engage in fishing 
in the select waters of this region defined by the CCAMLR, und er the strict watch of 
observers, catching only the amounts of fish within the CCAM LR-assigned quotas. 
The Insung I departed from the Port of Montevideo in Uruguay o n November 2, 2010, 
and reached Zone B of Trench 88-1 governed by the CCAMLR on Nov ember 30 for 
fishing. The crew began fishing the next day, December 1. The temperature around Zone B 
at the time ranged between -3 and -1 Celsius degree. At the tim e of the accident, the sky 
was overcast and the visual range extended only 6 miles or so, with a 
westerly-southwesterly wind blowing at 10 to 13 meters per s econd and tides around the 
ship rising 3 meters or so in height. The hull must have been su bjected to quite great 
motions, including rolling and pitching. As the seawater te mperature was not higher than -1 
or 0 Celsius degree, crewmembers who had fallen into the sea w ere exposed to great risks 
of hypothermia. 
B) The Ship Itself 
Built and launched in 1979, the Insung I was over three decade s old at the time of its 
accident. The older a vessel, the more worn and obsolete its f acilities and equipment are 
likely to be, and the greater the caution and efforts require d for inspection and repair. 
Accordingly, from July 27 through August 30, 2010, the Insun g I underwent its periodical 
repair session as well as class inspection at the Port of Mont evideo. The required repair 
took place from July 29 to August 21 during this period. The re pair report completed at 
the time reports no major damages or changes done, other than the replacement of the 
deformed exterior of the bulbous bow (16mm thick, 65cm wide, 67cm long). In other 
words, at the time it set out sailing, the ship was in good cond ition. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal C) Sailing Instructions and Safety Management 
The owner of the ship had distributed copies of "The Regulati on for the Safety of 
Fishing Vessels" to all the 14 vessels it owned, including th e Insung I. The Safety 
Regulation instructs the captain of each vessel to take shel ter at an appropriate location in 
situations of bad weather and other bad sailing conditions. If the captain expects the 
weather to become bad during sailing, he is to prepare the shi p and crew members against 
any foreseeable emergency situations that could be brought on by the weather. In 
emergency, the Safety Regulation instructs that: (1) all ac tions be taken for the purpose of 
saving lives, under the supervision and direction of the cap tain and the officers, when it 
becomes necessary to evacuate the ship as it starts sinking; (2) all crewmembers be trained 
every 10 days in how to use the expandable rescue boat, how to e xtinguish fires, and how 
to escape from the ship, with the training results reported p eriodically to the company; (3) 
all non-Korean crewmembers be given extra training in how to escape from the ship, and 
so forth. All the guidelines on expandable rescue boats, fir e escape routes, and sample fire 
drill layouts were made available either in both Korean and E nglish, or in English only. 
At the time of its sinking, however, the Insung I had crewmemb ers from six countries 
(Korea, China, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines, and Ru ssia). Only some of the Korean 
crewmembers spoke English. The Chinese sailors, of the Kore an descent, spoke Korean, but 
no English. The Filipinos spoke English, but no Korean. The I ndonesians spoke a very 
limited English, while the Vietnamese spoke neither langua ge. Although the language barrier 
among these crewmembers was so great as to hinder effective c ommunication, the ship 
owner had distributed copies of the Safety Regulation writt en only in Korean, and the 
guidelines on how to use the expandable rescue boats, the fir e escape route, and the 
sample fire drill layout in Korean and English only, making i t almost impossible for some 
of the crewmembers onboard to adequately understand and mas ter the safety requirements. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal D) Crew Management 
The Insung I, at the time of its accident, had 42 members onboa rd, including 40 
sailors and 2 observers. The 40 sailors included 7 Koreans, 8 Chinese (of the Korean 
descent), 11 Indonesians, 11 Vietnamese, and 3 Filipinos. O f the foreign crewmembers, only 
the Chinese spoke Korean, and only the Filipinos spoke Engli sh. The Vietnamese spoke 
neither of the two languages. The foreign crewmembers had be en recruited by the six 
hiring agencies of Insung Corporation, i.e., Panworld, the Korea Overseas Fisheries 
Association, Changman, Hwayoung Trading, Noah Internatio nal, and Hanjin. The implication 
of this hiring policy was that the ship owner did not even have full knowledge of the 
names and nationalities of the crewmembers onboard the sunk en vessel. While one should 
not discount the practical difficulties of recruiting and h iring foreign sailors for pelagic 
fishing vessels, it is also difficult to avoid the conclusio n that the ship owner should have 
made greater efforts and precaution to ensure safety in fish ing and emergency situations 
alike, given the risks implicit in the significant language barrier that existed among the 
crewmembers. 
E) The Captain's Actions 
(1) Setting Out to Sail Despite the Bad Weather Conditions 
In hindsight, the captain of the Insung I should have ensured that the trawling door 
shutter and the bow-side door to the passageway for fishing g ear were shut before deciding 
to sail to Zones H, I, and K of Trench 88-1 on December 9, 2010, c onsidering the typical 
weather conditions of the Antarctic Ocean around that time o f the year. 
Instead, the captain began sailing without closing these do ors. While the ship managed 
to stay afloat when it was sailing along the course of 090 degr ees, despite the high tides 
rising 3 meters high and the westerly-southwesterly wind bl owing at 10 to 13 meters per 
second, the neglect of the doors led to a fatal situation when the ship changed its course 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal to 135 degrees around 05:20 on the day of the accident, as it ca me to face the wind 
blowing from the 3 to 4 o'clock direction then. The rolling of the hull, and the increasing 
influx of seawater through the trawling door onto the upper d eck as well as into the 
passageway for fishing gear, eventually sent the ship down t o the bottom of the ocean. 
(2) Inadequate Preparation for Emergency Situations 
The captain received a report at 06:00 on the day of the accide nt, to the effect that 
the ship's hull was rolling 10 degrees along starboard and 2 d egrees along port, and that 
seawater had gotten inside the passageway for fishing gear a s seen on the closed-circuit 
TV. The captain immediately ordered the reporting deckhand to contact the engine room to 
have the fuel moved from the starboard to the port of the ship, and also commanded other 
crewmembers who were resting to move the fishing sinkers tha t had been stored on the 
rear deck from the starboard to the port. When the ship's hull radically heeled to starboard 
at 06:20, the captain ordered that the ship be steered rightw ard so that it would face the 
wind's eye. It was in steering the ship rightward that the shi p was finally overturned on its 
starboard. 
Upon receiving the initial report at 06:00 about the ship's t ilt and the presence of 
seawater in the passageway for fishing gear, the captain sho uld instead have checked the 
sites of seawater influx first. He should have had the office rs on the navigational watch in 
the bridge check the bow-side door of the passageway, the div ing pump in the passageway, 
and any possible damages to the exterior of the hull, and orde red the safety actions called 
for accordingly. He should also have sounded the depths of th e fish storage areas and 
closed them to see whether the hull was punctured in any part. While the captain failed to 
carry out this alternative course of action, the deckhand wh o went down to the passageway 
upon the captain's order failed to identify the point of seaw ater influx even after seeing that 
the passageway was nearly flooded by it. He climbed back to th e bridge without shutting 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal the bow-side door of the passageway. Had he checked whether t he diving pump was 
working properly, he could have seized an opportunity to pre vent the ship's sinking and the 
resulting human toll. 
Upon noticing that the ship's hull was radically tilting to s tarboard, the captain should 
also have set off the emergency alarms, gathered all crewmem bers on the designated 
evacuation spot, and evacuated the ship accordingly. The ca ptain's failure to command 
evacuation in a timely manner prevented the crewmembers fro m floating the rescue boats 
before the ship was completely overturned. 
(3) Inappropriate Conduct of the Ship 
When the ship began to tilt radically to starboard, the capta in ordered that it be turned 
hard-a-starboard so that it would face the wind's eye. This d ecision, however, is interpreted 
as having accelerated the internal incline of the ship. 
4.3 Main Cause of Death 
A) Timely and Appropriate Rescue Efforts from the 707 Hongji n 
Upon receiving the call for rescue from the Insung I at 06:20, the captain of the 707 
Hongjin sailed his ship at full speed to arrive at the scene of accident by 06:40. Seeing 
that there were sailors onboard the two rescue boats, the cap tain hurried to save the 10 
other crewmembers that were still in water (one of whom died i n hypothermia shortly after 
being rescued). The captain then drew onboard the 11 sailors from the two rescue boats. 
Given the extremely low temperature of the seawater surroun ding them, the sailors who 
remained long in water could have died in hypothermia, had it not been for the sensible 
decision on the part of 707 Hongjin's captain to rescue the sa ilors out of water first. 
B) Low Seawater Temperature 
The water surrounding the accident was extremely cold, rang ing somewhere around 0 
and -1 Celsius degree at the time. This was apt to cause death b y hypothermia. The 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal crewmembers of the Insung I who were not rescued in an hour or s o after the ship's 
overturning are very likely to have died, with their body tem peratures fallen to 25 ~ 28 
Celsius degrees. 
4.4 Ship Evacuation 
A) Inappropriate Storage of the Fishing Gear 
On its way from Zone B to Zones H, I, and K of Trench 88-1 on Decem ber 9, 2012, 
the Insung I was carrying 36 tons of reels with hooks on its upp er deck, rear deck, and 
the deck above its crewmembers' quarters, as well as 2,500 to 3,000 meters of buoy line 
(18mm in diameter) on its rear deck and the deck above the crew members' quarters. This 
went against the principle that the fishing gear, when not in use, must be kept in the fish 
storage areas. The fishing gear, placed loosely about the de ck areas, was released from the 
ship when the ship was overturned and stayed afloat around th e sinking ship and the 
crewmembers, hindering the crewmembers' efforts to escape , and becoming obstacles to the 
rescue boats and the 707 Hongjin when the members on these thr ee vessels sought to draw 
other crewmembers out of water. 
B) Inadequate Training of the Crewmembers against Emergenc y 
The captain of the Insung I reported that he conducted the fir e-extinguishing and ship 
evacuation training of his crewmembers three times a month, as required by the Safety 
Regulation. The captain also reported that the requisite tr aining took place on November 30, 
2010, right after the ship arrived at Zone B of Trench 88-1, an d on December 10, shortly 
after the ship began to sail. Considering that the average te mperature in the region dropped 
to -1 to -3 Celsius degrees at the time, it appears unlikely th at the ship's captain actually 
carried out the training that he reported. Because the ship o nly had expandable rescue boats 
that could not be un-expanded, the ship's crewmembers perha ps learned how to use those 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal boats only by written or spoken explanations, without getti ng a chance to actually try them 
afloat the sea. 
One could surmise the inadequacy of the crewmembers' traini ng against emergency 
from the fact that they failed to float the rescue boats in a ti mely manner when their ship 
was heeling radically to starboard. Moreover, the 11 crewme mbers that were the first to 
latch onto the two rescue boats that had been automatically r eleased from the ship failed to 
rescue other crewmembers out of water. 
4.5. Follow-up by the KRS 
After the accident, the KRS updated its class inspection rul es as follows. First, it added 
new conditions and terms requiring re-approval of stabilit y data and reports that ship owners 
now have to submit upon modifying or renewing the ship struct ures. Second, the KRS now 
requires ship owners to report to the KRS headquarters even t he minor changes made to 
the structures of their ships, whether superstructures or s ubstructures, by submitting the 
report on the completion of post-renovation inspection and the complete plan reflecting the 
changes made to each renovated ship. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal 5. Conclusion 
The sinking of the Insung I occurred because the crewmembers failed to keep the 
trawling door shutter and the bow-side door of the passagewa y for fishing gear shut while 
they were sailing amid bad weather conditions. Their failur e to check these doors and their 
decision to proceed with sailing, despite the tides rising 3 meters high and the strong wind 
blowing at 10 to 13 meters per second, led to the flooding of th e passageway by seawater 
that had flown in through the open trawling door. The crewmem bers' failure to take 
appropriate actions upon first discovering the presence of seawater inside the vessel led to 
even greater amounts of influx, which then quickly reached t he fishing gear storage area at 
the stern as well as the engine room, undermining the ship's o verall stability. However, the 
sinking also reflects failures of the ship management, as th e ship owner failed to provide 
adequate safety instructions and training in the languages that the crewmembers of five 
different countries could understand. 
The fact that, out of the 42 crewmembers in total, five died an d 16 other 
crewmembers and one observer went missing, indicates the ca ptain's failure to evacuate the 
ship in a timely manner. This failure led the crewmembers to f all into water, only -1 to 0 
Celsius degree at the time, and led many to die in hypothermia as a result. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal 6. Lessons Learned 
1. All vessels sailing across the Antarctic Ocean must be bra ced for bad weather. 
The Antarctic Ocean is a heaving sea given to frequent and dra matic changes in the 
weather and sailing conditions. Vessels engaged in fishing or sailing across this ocean must 
therefore anchor themselves securely in all rolling and pit ching, and ensure that all the 
doors and openings remain shut so that seawater would not flo w in. 
2. The manuals on lifesaving devices and emergency plans mus t be written in languages 
that actual crewmembers can understand. 
The manuals on major facilities on the vessel must be written in languages that actual 
crewmembers can understand. This is especially important f or the manuals on key lifesaving 
devices as well as emergency plans. 
3. In the Antarctic Ocean, people about to drown must be given priority in rescue 
operations. 
Because the water of the Antarctic Ocean is extremely cold, a lways below 0 Celsius 
degree, people that fall into it are likely to die in a short sp an of time due to hypothermia. 
Rescue operations in the region must therefore prioritize s aving people who are about to 
drown first. 
4. Vessels with multinational crewmembers must thoroughly train all crewmembers against 
possible emergency situations. 
The Insung I had crewmembers recruited from five countries. Even though the captain 
reported that all the emergency training was conducted thre e times a month as required by 
the company's policy, the vessel was not evacuated in a timel y manner and the lives were 
not saved when the vessel was overturned and started sinking . This is most likely because 
the crewmembers had not been adequately trained and prepare d for possible emergency 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal situations, as a result of which they panicked when the ship w as actually overturned. This 
panic could have been prevented had the captain provided spe cific, substantial, effective 
training for all crewmembers speaking different languages . Ensuring that effective 
communication occur among crewmembers despite the differe nces in their national and 
linguistic backgrounds is a key part of preparing against fo reseeable emergency situations. 
Marine Safety Investigation Report 
Korean Maritime Safety Tribunal 7. Safety Action 
A) Insung Corporation 
In order to prevent the tragedy of the Insung I from recurring, Insung Corporation must 
immediately improve its policy of crew management and safet y control, ensuring that: (a) 
all crewmembers effectively communicate with one another, above and beyond the cultural 
and linguistic barriers; (b) all the safety rules and requir ements of the company be written 
not only in English, but also in the languages that actual cre wmembers understand. 
