"2010_102","[14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue management being a contributing factor to the accident in the provided document. Therefore, it is assigned a weighting of 0.
","0.0","10.0","Human error and assumptions played a role in the accident, particularly in the decision-making process regarding the inspection of the track and the application of speed restrictions. The area manager did not make a decision himself but left it to individual track gangers to decide on inspections, and the ganger in charge of the affected section did not conduct a special inspection (4.3.1). Additionally, the network control manager did not send updates to the area manager as required (4.3.3). These errors and assumptions contributed to the lack of preventive measures that could have mitigated the accident's impact.
","0.0","5.0","While the report does not explicitly mention a lack of training and competency as a direct cause, it does imply that a properly trained inspector might have noticed signs of a pending landslide (4.3.4). This suggests that training and competency in recognizing such signs could have played a role, albeit not a major one, in the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is no information in the document suggesting that a lack of training or familiarity with equipment contributed to the accident. Therefore, it is assigned a weighting of 0.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not provide evidence that crew resource management was a factor in the accident. Therefore, it is assigned a weighting of 0.
","0.0","15.0","The failure to adhere to safety procedures was a significant factor in the accident. The area manager did not call for a special inspection despite the severe weather warning and the location being listed as an ""essential feature"" due to previous landslides (4.3.2). Additionally, the network control manager did not update the area manager with severe weather warnings as required (4.3.3). These deviations from safety procedures contributed to the accident.
","0.0","10.0","The organizational safety culture at KiwiRail may have influenced the accident, as there was a lack of proactive measures and a systematic approach to risk management for slopes adjacent to the rail corridor (4.2.4-4.2.5). The report suggests that KiwiRail had not conducted a complete risk assessment for each identified location to reduce risks such as monitoring rainfall and applying temporary speed restrictions (5.5).
","0.0","20.0","Risk management and analysis were central to the accident, as the landslide was a predictable event due to heavy rain and previous occurrences at the site (4.1.2). The lack of a complete risk assessment and the failure to apply temporary speed restrictions or conduct special track inspections contributed significantly to the accident (5.5).
","0.0","0.0","There is no mention of issues with regulatory oversight and compliance contributing to the accident in the provided document. Therefore, it is assigned a weighting of 0.
","0.0","5.0","Situational awareness was somewhat involved, as the drivers of the trains that passed the area 28 minutes before the accident might not have noticed any precursor to a landslide (4.3.4). However, it was not a major factor since the landslide occurred within a short time frame before the accident, leaving little opportunity for situational awareness to prevent it.
","0.0","0.0","Emergency response preparedness was not a contributing factor to the accident itself. The emergency response was found to be effective and well-coordinated (4.1.5, 5.1). Therefore, it is assigned a weighting of 0.
","0.0","16.667","Maintenance and inspection regimes were a contributing factor, as the lack of a special inspection in response to the severe weather warning and the known risk of landslides at the location were issues (4.3.2, 5.4). The failure to conduct a special inspection and apply a speed restriction due to the weather conditions contributed to the accident.
","2.887","0.0","There is no mention of automation contributing to the accident in the provided document. Therefore, it is assigned a weighting of 0.
","0.0","18.333","Weather conditions and decision-making were critical factors in the accident. The landslide was triggered by heavy rain, which was forecasted, and the failure to make decisions based on this information, such as conducting a special track inspection or imposing speed restrictions, directly contributed to the accident (4.2.2, 4.3.2, 5.4).
","2.887","0.0","Although communication breakdowns occurred, such as the network control manager not sending updates to the area manager (4.3.3), they did not directly contribute to the occurrence of the accident but rather to the response after the accident. Therefore, it is assigned a weighting of 0.","0.0","<NA>","<NA>","<NA>","true","N/A"
