"2016_102","[9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the incident in the document, so it cannot be determined if fatigue management was a factor.
","0.0","30.0","The incident was significantly influenced by human error and assumptions. The train controller, driver, and pilot did not have a shared understanding of the procedure to be followed and the limit for the setback authority, leading to errors and erroneous assumptions that contributed to the incident (4.4, 4.4.7). The train controller did not follow the KiwiRail procedure as described in Operating Rule 124(d) for undertaking the setback movement for the coal train, which was a contributing factor in the incident (5.3). The train driver and pilot were not sufficiently familiar with Operating Rule 124(d) to question the train controller's plan (5.4). These factors indicate a significant contribution of human error and assumptions to the incident.
","0.0","15.0","Training and competency issues were evident in the incident. The train controller had not undergone any special training in or assessment on Operating Rule 124(d) after the Automatic Signalling Regulations were introduced (4.3.14). The train driver had only been driving for about 17 months and had not driven a train that had stalled before (4.3.18). The pilot's knowledge of Operating Rule 124(d) was limited, and KiwiRail was unable to produce records of his most recent assessments (4.3.21). These factors indicate that inadequate training and competency contributed to the incident.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not provide evidence that a lack of training or familiarity with equipment contributed to the incident, so this theme cannot be assigned a weighting.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which Crew Resource Management contributed to the incident. The document does not provide specific details on teamwork, leadership, or CRM training that could be directly linked to the incident.
","0.0","25.0","The lack of adherence to safety procedures was a critical factor in the incident. The setback movement was not planned and carried out in accordance with the operating rules and procedures (4.3, 5.2). The train controller, driver, and pilot did not perform the required checks before the train controller authorized the setback movement (4.3.5). The train controller also did not block any signals to prevent conflicting movements before issuing the movement authority (4.3.11). These deviations from standard operating procedures contributed significantly to the incident.
","0.0","10.0","The organizational safety culture at KiwiRail did not effectively communicate the replacement of an old procedure for recovering stalled trains at Paerata with the existing Operating Rule 124(d) (4.3.22). The system for change management was not effective in ensuring that the change was fully implemented (5.5). This lack of effective communication and implementation indicates that the safety culture within the organization was a contributing factor to the incident.
","0.0","5.0","Risk management and analysis were not adequately applied. The train weight exceeded the capability of the locomotive in the track-adhesion conditions, which was likely a contributing factor to the train stalling (4.2.9). KiwiRail had not conducted a formal safety assessment when distributing the optimum driving method (4.2.7). The lack of thorough risk assessment and management contributed to the incident.
","0.0","5.0","Regulatory oversight and compliance were factors in the incident. The train controller did not follow the KiwiRail procedure as described in Operating Rule 124(d) (5.3), and the train controller, driver, and pilot were not sufficiently familiar with the rule (5.4). This indicates a lack of compliance with the operating rules, which are regulatory requirements.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not provide evidence that a lack of situational awareness contributed to the incident, so this theme cannot be assigned a weighting.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not discuss emergency response preparedness or its impact on the incident, so this theme cannot be assigned a weighting.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not indicate that maintenance or inspection regimes were factors in the incident, so this theme cannot be assigned a weighting.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not discuss the use of automation or its impact on the incident, so this theme cannot be assigned a weighting.
","0.0","0.0","Although weather conditions were present on the morning of the occurrence, the document does not provide evidence that decision-making regarding weather conditions contributed to the incident, so this theme cannot be assigned a weighting.
","0.0","10.0","Communication breakdown played a role in the incident. The pilot was issued with a hand-held radio only capable of receiving and transmitting on the local channel, which prevented him from having radio communication with the train controller during the setback movement (4.3.19). The train controller, driver, and pilot did not agree on the procedure and the feature or location where the setback movement would terminate (4.3.19, 4.3.20). This lack of effective communication contributed to the incident.
","0.0","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the document that contributed to the incident. All relevant themes have been addressed in the weightings provided.","0.0","true","N/A"
