"2016_201","[9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the accident within the provided document. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the PeeJay V accident.
","0.0","10.0","The document indicates that ""the builder and operators of the vessel did not fully appreciate the principles of how the CO2 fixed fire-fighting system operated"" (4.1.3). This suggests a degree of human error and incorrect assumptions regarding the operation of safety equipment, which contributed to the ineffectiveness of the fire suppression efforts.
","0.0","16.667","The crew's lack of familiarity with the principles of the CO2 fixed fire-fighting system indicates inadequate training and competency in emergency procedures, which is a significant factor in the accident. ""The crew were not sufficiently familiar with the principles of the CO2 fixed fire-fighting system for the engine room"" (5.4).
","2.887","16.667","The crew's limited training on the CO2 flooding system and their lack of understanding of its operation contributed to the accident. ""Their training and understanding of the system was limited to the instructions printed on a notice in the cupboard alongside the triggering mechanism"" (4.6.2).
","2.887","5.0","While there is no direct mention of CRM issues, the lack of effective use of available resources, such as the CO2 system, suggests a potential deficiency in CRM. However, since the document does not explicitly address CRM, this theme is given a lower weighting.
","0.0","10.0","The crew did not fully seal the engine room before activating the CO2 system, which is a deviation from safety procedures necessary for the system's effectiveness. ""The emergency procedure for a fire in the engine room, which the crew followed, was described in the Boat Work Manual"" (4.6.3), but the failure to seal the engine room indicates a lack of adherence to these procedures.
","0.0","8.333","The limited consideration of fire and catastrophic events in the operator's hazard register suggests a safety culture that may not have fully prioritized the identification and mitigation of such risks. ""The operator's hazard register focused mainly on personal injury, such as slips, trips and falls, and gave limited consideration to fire and other catastrophic events"" (4.3.10).
","2.887","10.0","The vessel's safety management system did not effectively identify and control the risk of fire in the engine room, which is a key aspect of risk management. ""The Commission identified three safety issues relating to the implementation of the vessel's safety management system"" (4.1.3).
","0.0","5.0","The vessel was operating with a Maritime Transport Operators Certificate, but an initial audit by MNZ had not yet been conducted. ""MNZ had issued the operator with a Maritime Transport Operators Certificate, but had not yet conducted the initial audit scheduled for the following year"" (4.1.2). This suggests a potential gap in regulatory oversight, but it is not the primary cause of the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence in the document to suggest that a lack of situational awareness contributed to the accident. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the PeeJay V accident.
","0.0","10.0","The crew's response to the fire and the lack of a fire detection and alarm system indicate issues with emergency response preparedness. ""The absence of a fire detection and alarm system on the PeeJay V meant the crew had less time and opportunity to respond to the fire"" (5.2).
","0.0","0.0","The document does not provide information suggesting that maintenance and inspection regimes were a contributing factor to the accident. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the PeeJay V accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is no mention of automation or its role in the accident within the provided document. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the PeeJay V accident.
","0.0","0.0","Weather conditions are not mentioned as a factor in the accident, and the vessel was in sheltered waters at the time of the incident. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the PeeJay V accident.
","0.0","5.0","While the document does not explicitly mention communication breakdown as a factor, the lack of fire detection and alarm systems could imply a breakdown in communication regarding the presence of a fire. ""Nobody could recall whether any other form of fire detection and automatic alarm system was installed on the vessel"" (4.3.6). However, since this is not a direct cause, it is given a lower weighting.
","0.0","3.333","The construction of the vessel, specifically the engine room, contributed to the accident by not allowing the compartment to be fully sealed, which rendered the CO2 fixed fire-fighting system ineffective. ""The construction of the engine room did not allow the compartment to be fully sealed"" (5.3). This theme is not explicitly listed but is a significant factor based on the document.","2.887","true","N/A"
