"2020_201","[11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18]","5.0","Fatigue management was mentioned as a potential factor, with the operator having a fatigue-management plan that included advice such as considering having two crew on watch, shortening the watch periods, and using the wheelhouse watchkeeping alarm (3.27). However, it was deemed ""unlikely that the deckhand fell asleep during the watch or that fatigue was a factor"" (3.28). Therefore, fatigue management played a minor role in the accident.
","0.0","15.0","Human error and assumptions were significant factors in the accident. The crew of both vessels did not take the correct action in accordance with the collision-prevention rules (4.1). The Rose Harmony's master's action of altering the course likely put the two vessels on a collision course (3.16), and the Leila Jo's deckhand did not take the actions required by Maritime Rules Part 22 after detecting the presence of the Rose Harmony (3.29).
","0.0","20.0","Training and competency were major issues in this accident. The deckhand on the Leila Jo was not sufficiently familiar with the collision-prevention rules to be left in sole charge of the watch (3.25, 3.37). The training system was designed to allow skippers to rest; however, watchkeepers would have to wake skippers whenever they were uncertain, limiting the amount of rest the skippers could get (3.38). The Commission recommended enhancing the training system to meet the minimum requirements of Maritime Rules Part 31 (3.39).
","0.0","10.0","Training and familiarity with equipment were also contributing factors. The deckhand on the Leila Jo did not use the radar equipment to plot the track of the Rose Harmony, which had been detected ahead (3.29). This indicates a lack of familiarity with the equipment necessary to prevent the collision.
","0.0","20.0","Crew Resource Management (CRM) was a critical factor in the accident. The situational awareness of the bridge team on the Rose Harmony was adversely affected by poor bridge resource management (3.10-3.11). Additionally, the third officer did not escalate communication to challenge the master effectively (3.20), and the presence of passengers on the bridge affected the bridge team's ability to manage the conduct of the vessel effectively (3.21).
","0.0","10.0","Adherence to safety procedures was not followed, as neither of the vessels' crew took the correct action in accordance with the collision-prevention rules (4.1). The master of the Rose Harmony made an incorrect sound signal when altering course (3.17), and the deckhand on the Leila Jo left the wheelhouse unmanned (3.29).
","0.0","5.0","Organizational safety culture played a role, as the presence of passengers on the bridge was problematic and affected the bridge team's ability to manage the conduct of the vessel effectively (3.21). The operator had included guidance in its safety management system to mitigate the risk of distraction to the bridge team, but this was not effectively enforced (3.22).
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which risk management and analysis specifically contributed to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which regulatory oversight and compliance specifically contributed to the accident.
","0.0","15.0","Situational awareness was a significant factor in the accident. The bridge team on board the Rose Harmony had low situational awareness of other marine traffic in the vicinity (4.3). The sole watchkeeper on board the Leila Jo also had low situational awareness as to the risk of collision with the Rose Harmony (4.5).
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which emergency response preparedness specifically contributed to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which maintenance and inspection regimes specifically contributed to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which the use of automation specifically contributed to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which weather conditions and decision making specifically contributed to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","While communication issues were present, such as the third officer not effectively challenging the master (3.20), the document does not frame these issues as a breakdown in communication but rather as a failure in CRM and situational awareness. Therefore, it is not given a separate weighting.
","0.0","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the document that are not already covered by the predefined themes.","0.0","true","N/A"
