  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Inquiry 11 -106: Hi -rail vehicle nearly struck by passenger train,  
Crown Road level crossing near Paerata,  
North Island Main Trunk, 28 November 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Transport Accident Investigation Commission is an independent Crown entity established to 
determine the circumstances and causes of accidents and incidents with a view to avoiding similar 
occurrences in the future.  Accordingly it is inappropriate that reports should be used to assign fault or 
blame or determine liability, since neither the investigation nor the reporting process has been 
undertaken for that purpose.  
The Commission may make recommendations to improve transport safet y.  The cost of implementing 
any recommendation must always be balanced against its benefits.  Such analysis is a matter for the 
regulator and the industry.  
These reports may be reprinted in whole or in part without charge, providing acknowledgement is mad e 
to the Transport Accident Investigation Commission.  
  
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
Final Report  
Rail inquiry 11-106 
Hi-rail vehicle nearly struck by passenger train, Crown Road level 
crossing near Paerata,  
North Island Main Trunk, 28 November 2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved for publication : October 2013   

Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
 
About the Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
The Transport Accident Investigation Commission (Commission) is an independent Crown entity 
responsible for inquiring into maritime, aviation and rail accidents and incidents for New Zealand, and  
co-ordinating and co -operating with other accident investigation organisations overseas .  The principal 
purpose of its inquiries is to determine the circumstances and causes of occurr ence s with a view to 
avoiding similar occurrences in the future.  Its purpose is not to ascribe blame to any person or agency  
or to pursue (or to assist an agency to pursue) criminal, civil or regulatory action against a person or 
agency.  The Commission carries out its purpose by informing members of the transport sector, both 
domestically and internationally, of the lessons that can be learnt from transport accidents and 
incidents.   
 
Commissioners  
Chief Commissioner    John Marshall, QC  
Deputy Chief Com missioner   Helen Cull, QC  
Commissioner     Howard Broad , CNZM  
     
Key Commission p ersonnel  
Chief Executive     Lois Hutchinson  
Chief Investigator of Accidents   Captain Tim Burfoot  
Investigator in Charge    Peter Miskell  
General Counsel    Rama Rewi  
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Email   inquiries@taic.org.nz  
Web  www.taic.org.nz    
Telephone   + 64 4 473 3112 (24 hours ) or 0800 188 926  
Fax  + 64 4 499 1510  
Address   Level 16, 80 The Terrace, PO Box 10 323, Wellington 6143, New Zealand   
  
 
 Important n otes 
 
Nature of the final report  
This final report  has not been prepared for the purpose of supporting any criminal, civil or regulatory 
action against any person or agency.  The Transport Accident Investigation Commission Act 1990 
makes this final report inadmissible as evidence in any p roceedings with the exception of a Coroner's 
inquest.  
 
Ownership of report  
This report remains the intellectual  property of the Transport Acci dent Investigation Commission.   
This report may be reprinted in whole or in part without charge, provided that ac knowledgement is 
made to the Transport Accident Investigation Commission.  
 
Citations and referencing  
Information derived from interviews during the Commission's inquiry into the occurrence is not cited in 
this final report.  Documents that would normally b e accessible to industry participants only and not 
discoverable under the Official Information Act 1980 have been referenced as footnotes only.  Other 
documents referred to during the Commission's inquiry that are publicly available are cited.  
 
Photographs , diagrams, pictures  
Unless otherwise specified, photographs , diagrams  and pictures included  in this final report  are 
provided by , and owned by,  the Commission.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Location of incident  
 
 
Legend  
 Paerata  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
Source: mapsof.net  
  
 
  
The Crown Road level crossing  
(located near Paerata)   
 
 
 
 
  

Contents  
Abbreviations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................  ii 
Glossary  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................  iii 
Data summary  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  iv 
1. Executive summary  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 1 
2. Conduct of the inquiry  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  3 
3. Factual information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 4 
3.1. Circumstances leading to the incident  ................................ ................................ ........................  4 
3.2. Personnel information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  6 
4. Analysis  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................  7 
4.1. Introduction  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 7 
4.2. Assumptions about the locations of trains and other rail vehicles  ................................ ...........  7 
4.3. Knowing where trains are on the rail network  ................................ ................................ ............  9 
4.4. Train controller wellbeing - nutrition and rest breaks  ................................ ............................  11 
4.5. Communication  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................  13 
5. Findings  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  15 
6. Key lessons  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  16 
7. Safety acti ons ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  17 
General  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  17 
Safety actions addressing safety issues identified during an inquiry  ................................ .................  17 
8. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 22 
8.1. General  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 22 
 New recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  22 
8.2. Recommendation 1: Assumptions about the locations of trains  ................................ ...........  22 
8.3. Recommendation 2: NZ Transport Agency  ................................ ................................ ..............  23 
 Previous recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 23 
8.4. Train controller wellbeing -nutrition and rest breaks  ................................ .............................  23 
8.5. Train visibility  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  24 
9. References  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  25 
 
 
  
Final report 11 -106 | Page i 
 Figure  
Figure 1  Up Main line and Down Main line from Papakura to Pukekohe  ................................ ............  10 
 
 
 
 
  
Page ii | Final report 11 -106 Abbreviations  
Commission  Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
km  kilometre(s)  
  
  
Final report 11 -106 | Page iii 
 Glossary  
blocking  a method of track protection that involves  holding a signal at " stop" to 
prevent train s entering a section of track  
controlled rail network  the rail network controlled by train control  
dark territory  sections of the controlled rail network  in which the train  control ler cannot 
electronically observe train m ovements  
Down Main line the rail track that trains  and other rail vehicles  use when travelling south 
from Papakura to Pukekohe  
information bulletin  a KiwiRail bulletin wi th information about activities such as planned track 
work and changes  to train services .  Information bulletins  are distributed 
to staff likely to be affected , including train controllers, signallers, train 
drivers and infrastructure maintenance personnel  
mimic screen  an electronic display that each train controller has showing  the location s 
of trains  on sections of the controlled rail network  
on-track  the process of transitioning a hi -rail vehicle from the road on to a rail track  
person -in-charge  the person responsible for the safe operation of a hi -rail vehicle 
movement  or a track occupation  
signaller at Papakura      the person who directly controls signals within Papakura Station limits  
track occupation   
authorisation  an authority from train control for infrastructure personnel to occupy a 
section of the controlled rail network to carry out track inspections , 
maintenance  or other track activities  
training shuttle  a non-revenue  passenger train used for driver training .  The train 
operation is supervised by a minder driver   
train register  an electronic register that a signaller uses to record the arrival and 
departure times of trains  
Up Main line the rail track that trains and other rail vehicles use when travelling north 
from Pukekohe to Pa pakura  
  
Page iv | Final report 11 -106 Data summary  
Vehicle particulars  
Train type and number : suburban passenger t rain 3121  
Classification : diesel  multiple unit  powered by coach A ustralian diesel 
locomotive 806 leading , with unpowered coach A ustralian 
diesel coach 856 trailing .  The train was 42.2 metres long and 
had a tare we ight of 78.72 tonnes  
Year of manufacture : built by A. Goninian Limited , New South Wales, Australia in 
1985 
Operator : Veolia Transport Auckland  Limited  
Date and time  28 November 2011 at 10401 
Location  633.572 kilometres North Island Main Trunk , Crown Road level 
crossing  
Persons involved  a driver, a train manager, a passenger operator and 7 
passengers  
Injuries  nil 
Damage  nil  
                                                        
1  Times in this report are New Zealand Daylight Times ( universal co -ordinated time  + 13 hours) and are 
expressed in the 24 -hour mode.   
2  The distance was from a reference point at Wellington Station.  
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 1 >>
 1. Executive summary  
1.1. Summary of the incident  
1.1.1.  On 28 November 2011 a track maintenance gang arrived at the Crown Road level crossing 
near Paerata to relocate an 11 -tonne hi -rail excavator from there to Pukekohe Station Yard 
about 5 k ilometres  (km) away.  
1.1.2.  A scheduled  passenger train  with 7 people on board  was due to pass through the Crown Road 
level crossing  on its way to Pukekohe .  The train controller had authorised  an unscheduled 
"training shuttle " train  to proceed to Pukekohe several minutes ahead of the scheduled 
passenger train.  The training shuttle looked just like the scheduled passenger train.  
1.1.3.  Sever al minutes after the training shuttle had passed over the Crown Road level crossing , the 
person -in-charge of the track maintenance gang radioed  the train controller and told him that 
"a subby [which was meant to be a reference to the scheduled suburban passenger train ] had 
just gone past" and he requested track time to take the hi -rail excavator to Paerata . 
1.1.4.  The train controller assumed that the person -in-charge was referring to the passenger train 
and, without checking, authorised him to place a hi-rail veh icle and the hi-rail excavator on the 
tracks in front of the approaching passenger train.  
1.1.5.  A short time later the train controller noticed the passenger train appear on his mimic screen 
and realised his error.  He alerted the person -in-charge, who managed t o get the hi -rail vehicle 
clear of the track just seconds before the passenger train passed, narrowly avoiding a 
collision.  
1.1.6.  The train controller 's mistake was failing to check  the whereabouts of the passenger train .  He 
did not make that check , because he made an assumption based on the person -in-charge of 
the worksite saying a "subby" had just passed his location.  
1.1.7.  The Transport Accident Investigation Commission (Commission) has identified 3 safety issues 
that contributed to the inciden t:  
 the train controller  acted on an assumption rather than follow ing proper procedures 
before authorising the  track  occupation ahead of the passenger train  
 the passenger train was travelling through a section of track where it was not 
electronically visible to the train controller when he authorised the track occupation  
 the train controller had not consumed any food for about 15 hours before the incident  and 
it could not be excluded that his performance was affected by his having a low blood 
glucose level . 
1.1.8.  The repor t also discusses another factor that contributed to the incident.  The driver of the 
passenger train  had reduced  the volume on his train radio  to a lower level , so he was not 
aware that the train controller had authorised  the maintenance gang to occupy the  section of 
track ahead of his train.   This meant that  the driver missed the opportunity to alert the train 
controller to the potential collision.  
1.2. Other incidents involving train control  
1.2.1.  This is the second time within recent months that the Commission has looked closely at train 
control.  In September  2013 the Commission completed an inquiry into a near -collision 
incident between Staircase  and Craigieburn involving a loaded coal train with 2 people on 
board and an alicart  driven by a track engineer .  The Staircase/ Craigieburn  incident occurred 
about 7 months before this one .  It involved  a train controller  failing to  check the location of 
the loaded coal train before  authoris ing the track engineer to "on-track " his alicart and travel 
towards the loaded coal train  on the same section of track.   The collision was avoided after a 

<< Page 2 >>
 Final report 11 -106 structures inspector in the general area overhea rd the radio conversation between the train 
controller and the track engineer  and raised the alarm .  
1.2.2.  As a result of its inquiry into the Staircase/Craigieburn  incident, the Commission became 
concerned about  a number of wider systemic issues that it  had found within train control , 
including :  
 the lack of a proper risk assessment  of the merger of 2 train control desks  
 poor supervision  of and support for the train controller in that case , who had 
become increasingly stressed and mentally fatigued during her shift  
 the standard protocol of not allowing scheduled breaks for train controllers.  
1.2.3.  Although the safety issues identified in the Stair case/Craigieburn incident are not precisely 
the same  as those in this incident , both incidents raised concern with the performance of  train 
control.  
1.2.4.  The Commission has made one new recommendation to the Chief Executive of KiwiRail and 
referenced 2 existin g open recommendation s from the earlier Staircase/Craig ieburn report to 
address the safety issues identified in this report.  It has also made one new recommendation 
to the Chief Executive of the N Z Transport Agency to ensure that KiwiRail address the safety 
issues.  
1.2.5.  The key lessons learnt from the inquiry into this  occurrence  were:  
 train controllers need to verify all information before authorising a track occupations.  If 
they cannot see trains by some electronic means , they must make radio contact with the 
drivers to verify the trains' locations in order to give authorisations  
 the risk of train controllers making assumptions must be managed on an on -going basis  
 train controllers who are significan tly fatigued (mentally) during their shifts can be a ris k to 
public transport safety.  Having a proper diet and nutrition , and taking rest breaks during 
shifts are crucial for minimising this risk  
 food must be easily accessible by train controllers, and tr ain controllers must be given 
adequate breaks during their shifts to enable them to eat and to rest.  
  
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 3 >>
 2. Conduct of the inquiry  
2.1. The NZ Transport Age ncy notified the Commission of the near  collision on the day it occurred .  
After making preliminary enquiries,  the Commission opened an inquiry under section 13(1) of 
the Transport Accident Investigation Commission Act 1990 to determine the circumstances 
and causes of the incident .  An investigator  in charge was assigned to investigate the incident.  
2.2. On 30 November  2011  the investigator  in charge travelled to the Crown Road  level crossing 
and examine d the incident site.  He subsequently  interviewed  the: 
 train controller  
 driver of the passenger train  
 2 minder drivers and 4 trainee drivers from the training shuttle  
 person in charge  
 driver of the hi-rail vehicle .   
2.3. The Commission's investigator also obtained and reviewed a number of record s and 
documents from KiwiRail,  including:  
 the train controller's training and personal records , including the results of his previo us 
performance assessments  
 KiwiRail's operating rules and procedures for train control  
 various incident reports and signalling records.   
2.4. On 26 August 2013  the Commissioners finalised a draft final report regarding the incident and 
approved it for distribu tion to interested persons for comment.  
2.5. Written submissions were received from the NZ Transport Agency, KiwiRail and the train 
controller .  These submissions were considered and changes made to the report.   
2.6. On 24 October 2013 the Commission approved the f inal report for publication.    
 
 
  

<< Page 4 >>
 Final report 11 -106 3. Factual information  
3.1. Circumstances leading to the incident  
3.1.1.  On Sunday 27 November 2011,  a track maintenance gang  carried out maintenance work on 
the Up Main line of the North Island Main Trunk,  near Paerata .  After completing this work they 
left an 11-tonne  hi-rail excavator  near the Crown Road  level crossing  overnight . 
3.1.2.  The next day the maintenance  gang, including the person -in-charge, returned to  the Crown 
Road  level crossing to relocate the hi-rail excavator .  The maintenance gang  timed its arrival to 
coincide with the off -peak suburban passenger train timetable , which would normally have 
provided a work -window of about 75 minutes between scheduled southbound trains .  The 
person -in-charge  intended to on-track  the hi-rail excavator  and a hi -rail vehicle on to the Down 
Main line at the Crown Road  level crossing , then  travel south to Pukekohe Station Yard  about  
5 km  away .   
3.1.3.  Between 0900 and 1500 that day,  however,  driver training operations were  scheduled  to take 
place between Waitak ere and Pukekohe .  Part of this training program me would involve  a non -
revenue passenger train (training shuttle) making 2 return trips between Papakura and 
Pukekohe.  These training operations were noted in the information bulletin for that day , which 
stated in part : 
Veolia, Driver Training, Waitakere - Pukekohe:  
Veolia driver training, (VT1), may operate between Waitakere and Pukekohe all lines, 
in accordance with KiwiRail ROC Section L1 Instruction 1.1, as directed by Train 
Control and as required by the Training Supervisor for training purposes. Hours: 
0900 to 1500.  
3.1.4.  The person -in-charge  of the track occupation said that although  he had read the information 
bulletin that morning , he had not consider ed that his plan to relocate the hi-rail excavator 
would be affected by  the driver training operations . 
3.1.5.  At about  1012 the signaller  at Papakura contacted  the train controller and told  him that  the 
traini ng shuttle (otherwise known as VT1) had arrived at Papakura , and that its  driver wished  
to return  to Pukekohe.  The Papakura signaller added that as there were  no further rail 
movements  at that time, the training shuttle  could  travel ahead of Train 3121 (the passenger 
train ) on the Down Main line.   
3.1.6.  At about  1019 the  training shuttle  departed from Papakura .  The train contr oller agreed and 
authorised the movement .  About 9 minutes later the passenger train departed from Papakura 
on the Down Main line, and  started travelling  behind the training shuttle.   
3.1.7.  At about 1020 the maintenance gang , including the person -in-charge,  arrived at the Crown 
Road  level crossing .  They were not aware  that the training shuttle was travelling on the Down 
Main l ine towards the Crown Road  level crossing at that time . 
3.1.8.  At about  1029 the training shuttle  crossed  the Crown Road  level crossing on the Down Main 
line.  The person -in-charge , who was near the crossing, saw it, but assumed that it was a 
scheduled passenger train  rather than a training shuttle  because : 
 he was not aware that the training shuttle  was in the area  
 the training shuttle looked like  a passenger train  
 the training shuttle crossed  the level crossing close to the time that the passenger train  
was expected to cross . 
3.1.9.  About  1036  (i.e. a bout 7 minutes after seeing the training shuttle pass the Crown Road  level 
crossing)  the person -in-charge  radioed  train control  and said : 
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 5 >>
 46293 [his call number].  I'm sitting at 663 and a half.  A subby ha s just gone past 
on the Down Main  and I want 30 minutes to go to 8L [Signal D in paragraph 4.3.4, 
the bo undary between Auckland  and Waikato train control desks] …   
3.1.10.  By this time the training shuttle had already reached Pukekohe and was now travelling  back to 
Papakura on the Up Main line. 
3.1.11.  The train controller said that he had thought  the person -in-charge 's comment  ("A subby has 
just gone past on the Down Main ") meant that a  suburban passenger train had just gone past 
that second  rather than  minutes earlier .  He therefore  assumed that the "subby " was the 
passenger train , and that the track between the Crown Road  level crossing and Signal D at 
Paerata was now clear.   He said that he had made this assumption because the person -in-
charge's comment was made around the time that he expected  the passenger train to be 
passing  the Crown Road  level crossing.    
3.1.12.  With th is mind -set the train controller contacted the signaller at Papakura and instructed him 
to apply blocking to protect the person -in-charge 's movement on the Down Main line.  The 
Papakura signaller confirmed that the blocking had been applied.   
3.1.13.  The train co ntroller  then authorised the person -in-charge's  track occupation , stating that :  
1037 is the time, I understand a subby has just gone past you on the Down Main 
at 633 and a half.  Yourself and [46]843 to proceed from there through to 8L 
Signal Paerata.   Blocking applied at 44 Signal, Down Main line at Papakura.  
Clearance time at 1110, over.  
3.1.14.  Upon receiving this authorisation, t he person -in-charge  recorded the details on the required 
form (a  pro-forma Mis 71 , "Track Occupancy  Cross Check " form ).  He then  read back the 
details of the authorisation to the train controller .  The train controller confirmed the person -in-
charge 's read -back  then  ended the radio communication .  By now , the passenger train was 
only about 2  minutes away from  the Crown Road  level crossing.   
3.1.15.  The driver of the passenger train  said that he  had not hear d the train controller authorising  the 
person -in-charge  to occupy the section of track ahead of his train , even though he was on the 
same radio frequency .  He said that he had trained himself to focus only on those calls made 
to his call sign , and to  ignore all other radio communication s.  
3.1.16.  Upon receiving his authorisation, the  person -in-charge  radioed the operator of the hi -rail 
excavator to confirm the details of their  track occupation authorisation .  The plan was to move 
the hi -rail vehicle on  to the track first , followed by  the hi -rail excavator.  The person -in-charge  
began  doing this, instructing the driver to position the hi-rail vehicle on to the track.  This put 
the hi-rail vehicle directly in the path of  the approaching passenger train.  
3.1.17.  The train controller said that shortly  after confirming  the person -in-charge 's track occupation, 
he had had a feeling that something was not right.  His unease had been  heightened  when he 
looked at his mimic screen  and saw that the passenger train (which had only just appeared on 
the screen)  had not in fact  passed  the Crown Road  level crossing , as he had assumed,  but 
was instead approaching  it.  The train controller  called  the person -in-charge  and asked him if 
the "subby " that had passed over  the Crown Road  level crossing had done so within the 
previous  few seconds.  The person -in-charge  said no , that the subby had passed  several  
minutes earlier .  The train controller then infor med the person -in-charge  that the train that had 
passed  earlier was in fact the training shuttle , and that another subby (the passenger train) 
was now approaching Paerata  on the Down Main l ine. 
3.1.18.  A few seconds later  (while the train controller and the person -in-charge were still speaking to 
each other) , the warning bells  at the Crown Road  level crossing began ringing as the 
passenger train approached .  The person -in-charge  immediately signalled for  the hi -rail vehicl e 
to be driven from the Down Main  line.  This was done  a few seconds be fore the passenger 
train passed , narrowly avoiding a collision.   
 

<< Page 6 >>
 Final report 11 -106 3.2. Personnel information  
Train controller  
3.2.1.  The train controller  had started work with KiwiRail  in a Wellington -based track maintenance 
gang on 1 August 2005 .  On 26 June 2008, after  completing  his train control training , 
including  a period of on -the-job training , the train controller  had been  certified to perform train 
control duties on the  Bay of Plenty desk.   On 30 March 2009 he had been  certified to perform 
train control duties on the Waikato desk , and on 21 May 2010 the  Auckland desk.  His train 
control certification for the Auckland desk was current at the time of the incident.  
3.2.2.  During the 10 -day period before the  incident, the train controller had worked the following 
roster :  
Date - 2011  Posted roster hours  Train control desk  
18 November  Annual leave  x 
19 November  0650 to 19003 Merged desks  
20 November  Annual leave  x 
21 November  Annual leave  x 
22 November  2240 to 0650  Central and E ast Coast Main 
Trunk  merged desks  
23 November  2240 to 0650  Central and E ast Coast Main 
Trunk  merged desks  
24 November  2240 to 0650  Central and E ast Coast main 
trunk  merged desks  
25 November  Rostered day off  x 
26 November  Rostered day off  x 
27 November  Rostered day off  x 
28 November  (day of incident)  0640 to 1450  Auckland  
 
3.2.3.  The train controller had not been working excessive hours prior to this incident .  He had been  
either on annual leave or rostered off duty for 6 of the 10 days before the incident.  A post -
incident urine specimen provided by the train controller was tested by the Institute of 
Environmental Science and Research as part of KiwiRail's standard protocol s.  The specimen 
tested negative for drugs and alcohol.   
Person -in-charge  
3.2.4.  The person -in-charge  had worked  for KiwiRail 's infrastructure maintenance provider since  23 
March 2002 .  On 6 September 2004 h e had become  a track ganger for a track maintenance 
work group  based  at Pukekohe .  His  most recent biennial  refresher training had been  
completed on 15 May 2009 , and on 3  August 2010 he  had undertaken  further track safety 
training .  On 31  March 2011 the person -in-charge  had been trained  in the Alternative Track 
Safety Rules  and Pilot for Automatic Signalling Rules that were introduced  within  the Auckland 
suburban network  from  8 May 2011 .   
Driver of the passenger train  
3.2.5.  The scheduled 2 -car diesel multiple unit passenger train was crewed by a  driver, one train 
manager and one passenger operator.  The driver had 7 years' experience driving diesel 
multiple units on the Auckland suburban rail network.  His certification was current.  
  
                                                        
3  The train control roster schedules a merged -desk, 12 -hour shift on a Saturday when scheduled rail traffic 
and track maintenance activities are normally less frequent than at other times of the week.  
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 7 >>
 4. Analysis   
4.1. Introduction   
4.1.1.  The passenger train nearly collided with the hi -rail vehicle because  the train controller 
mistakenly authoris ed the person -in-charge to place a hi-rail vehicle and hi-rail excavator on to 
the section of track on which the passenger train was travelling .  The train controller made this 
mistak e because he did not verify the location of the passenger train .  He made an 
assumption  based on what he was told by  the person -in-charge of the worksite that a "subby", 
which he assumed was the passenger train, had already and only just passed his locatio n.  
The passenger train was in fact about 2  minutes away, approaching  the Crown Road  level 
crossing where the person -in-charge had begun to on -track his hi-rail vehicle.  
4.1.2.  This incident highligh ted 3 safety issues , namely:  
 assumptions about the location s of the trains  - the train controller made an assumption 
about the location of the passenger train and did not verify  this location before authorising 
the person -in-charge's track occupation.  Assumptions by train controllers about the 
location s of trains and other rail vehicles are a real and constant risk  that must be 
continu ally and properly managed  
 knowing where trains are on the rail network  - the passenger train was not electronically 
visible to the train controller when he authorised the person -in-charge's track occupation.  
A significant portion  of the controlled rail network  and therefore a large number  of rail 
movements and track activities  are not electronically  visible to train control  at any given 
time .  Although mechanisms are available to help train controllers anticipate and verify 
these movements and track activities , these mechanisms require train controllers to 
interpret, analyse and understand information  (or the absence of information) , often in  
split-second s and while under pressure.  This makes their job complex and demanding.  A 
high reliance on human input means that the system will always be a t risk from human 
error .  The Commission raised this issue in its Staircase/Craigieburn  report4 
 nutrition and rest breaks  - the train controller had not eaten for about 15 hours before 
the incident.  T rain controllers who do not eat properly and regularly during their shift s 
and/or who do not take rest breaks during their shift s may become mentally fatig ued, 
which can contribute to their making errors.  The Commission  also raised this issue in its 
Staircase/Craigieburn report .  Although there is no objective evidence to support the train 
controller's mental performance  being  affected by the lack of rest breaks or the lack of 
food before and during his shift, research has shown that insufficient nutrition can 
nevertheless affect human performance.   
4.1.3.  Each of these safety issues is discussed in the following sections . 
4.2. Assumptions  about the location s of trains and other rail vehicles  
Safety issue:  The train controller made an assumption about the location of the passenger 
train and did not confirm this location before authorising the person -in-charge's track 
occupation.  Assumptio ns made by train controllers about the location s of trains and other rail 
vehicles are a real and constant risk  that must be continu ally and properly managed.  
4.2.1.  KiwiRail's Track Safety Rules required train controllers to verify all train movements before 
granting track occupation authorisations.  Rule 915(b) stated:  
Train Control will ensure that the proposed movement will not conflict with rail vehicle 
movements (trains, hi -rail vehicles, etc).  
The location of conflicting rail vehicle movements must be verified by Train Control prior to the 
movement being authorised5. 
                                                        
4  Commission report 11 -102.  
5  Rule 915(b), Rail Operating Rules: Section 9: Track Safety Rules.  Ontrack.   25 November 2008.  

<< Page 8 >>
 Final report 11 -106 4.2.2.  Rule 915(b)(i) was specifically concerned with on -tracking.  It stated:  
When a train is in the vicinity where the on tracking is to take place:  
Train control must verify that train's position to ensure that it has [passed ] the on -tracking location, 
prior to authorising the Trolley /Hi -rail movement.  
4.2.3.  These rules were further repeated in KiwiRail's Operating Instructions for Train Control6.  
Clause 14.1.2, for example, stated:  
Pre Authorisation check and use of Train Control Diagram for Track Occupancy  
Before track occupation is authorised the Train Controller must establish positively whether any 
conflict exists with either existing occupations, tra ck maintenance machinery or trains within any 
part of the area requested.  
All movements and work authorised must be plotted on the Train Control Diagram as prescribed in 
instruction 2.1 and 2.2 [plotting convention]  
4.2.4.  On 13 April 2011 (about 7 months before the incident) KiwiRail issued a safety briefing notice 
to train control personnel reminding them about the importance of verifying train movements 
before granting track occupation authorisations.  This safety briefing notice was issued 
following potential conflicts, which had been created as a result of train controllers authorising 
track occupations.  The safety briefing notice specifically alerted personnel to the danger of 
making assumptions about the location s of trains without verifying where they were .  It 
concluded by saying:  
In summary, be aware that you can make semi -conscious assumptions and believe that it is safe 
to authorise occupancy when it is not.  The defence is to consistently apply checks fully with 
verification, and then verbalise what yo u understand and are authorising.  
4.2.5.  The train controller made 3 assumptions7 based on the comment from  the person -in-charge 
that " A subby has just gone past on the Down Main ". 
 he assumed that  the "subby " was in fact the passenger train when in fact it was th e 
training shuttle  
 he assumed that the passenger train (which was actually the training shuttle) had only just 
passed the Crown Road level crossing on the Down Main line, when in fact it had done so 
several minutes earlier  
 he assumed that the Down Main line between the Crown Road level crossing and Signal D 
was now clear for a 30 -minute track occupation for the person -in-charge to travel on , 
when it was not.  
4.2.6.  The train controller made these assumptions because he thought  that the person -in-charge's 
commen t, "A subby has just gone past on the Down Main ", meant that the passenger train 
had just gone past that second , rather than a few minutes earlier .  Th e request for the track 
occupation was made within a few minutes of the time the train controller expecte d the 
passenger train to be passing  the Crown Road level crossing.  
4.2.7.  Despite KiwiRail's Track Safety Rules and the safety briefing notice , the train controller did not 
verify the location of the passenger train , but instead relied on his assumptions  about  what 
train was being referred to, and that it had just gone past .  In his submission to the 
Commission, the train controller implied  that relying on the practice of field staff providing 
additional information  to train controllers was normal practice.  He im plied that in this case, 
relying on the information that the "subby had just gone past" was appropriate.   However, 
train controllers must use all means available to verify the locations of trains before 
authorising track occupations.  
                                                        
6  Rail Operating Procedures: Section 10.1: Operating Instructions for Train Control.  Ontrack.  23 November 
2009.  
7  The Concise Oxford English Dictionary (11th edition) defines an "assumption" as something that is 
accepted as true wit hout proof.  
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 9 >>
 4.2.8.  The risk of human error will always be present whenever a process or a system requires a 
person to make a decision or to perform an act.  This risk can be effectively managed and 
minimised if the right level of attention and commitment is given to it.  
4.2.9.  Train controllers must not make assumptions.  They should only act on verified information.  
KiwiRail could ensure that train controllers do not make assumptions by the following means : 
 repeatedly reminding train controllers (through regular safety briefing notices or 
announcements) to follow proper protocols when authorising track occupations, including 
verifying the location s of trains and other hi -rail vehicles rather than relying on 
assumptions  
 locating visual reminders throughout train control (e.g. on p osters or messages in each 
train control room and in the common areas) reminding train controllers not to make 
assumptions  
 ensuring that train controllers' formal training (initial and ongoing training) covers the risks 
of making assumptions and include s strategies to help train controllers avoid making 
them . 
4.2.10.  Managing the risk of train controllers making assumptions should be a daily priority, not an 
occasional exercise.  
Findings  
1. The train controller authorised a track occupation o n a section of track in fr ont of 
an advancing passenger train because he did not first check the whereabouts of all 
other trains in the area as required by KiwiRail rules and procedures.  
2. The train controller did not check  the location of the passenger train because he 
made an assum ption about its location,  based on additional information given  by 
the person -in-charge  of the track maintenance  group .   
3. KiwiRail must take all available steps to ensure  that train controllers do not make 
assumptions.  Train controllers must authorise tra ck occupations on verified 
information only.  
4. The person -in-charge provided additional information when he said , "A subby has 
just gone past on the Down Main".  This information confused the train controller . 
4.3. Knowing where trains are on the rail network  
Safety issue:  The passenger train was not electronically visible to the train controller when he 
authorised the person -in-charge's track occupation.  A significant portion of the controlled rail 
network, and therefore a large number  of rail movements and track activitie s, is not 
electronically visible to train control at any given time.  
4.3.1.  In New Zeal and, only about 40 % of the entire controlled rail network  is configured to display 
the location s of trains on train controllers ' mimic screen s.  For areas under track warrant 
control this has become colloquially  know n as "dark territory ".  This term is used in this report 
to describe any area that is not visible on a mimic screen.  In order to monitor  rail movements 
and track activities  on a section  of track (particularly within  dark territory) , train controllers rely 
on a number of mechanisms, including their paper -based train control diagram s, information 
from the electronic train register, compulsory radio calls from train drivers confirming their 
locations,  and the read -back .  
4.3.2.  Not all of these mechanisms, however,  can provide a train controller  with the exact location s 
of all rail vehicles throughout dark territory ; usually only their most likely  location s.  Also,  in 
order to determine this likely location, a train controller must  interpret , analys e and 
understand  not only  information  that they see or receive from these various mechanisms but 
also information that may not be obvious because, for example, it may not be displayed on a 

<< Page 10 >>
 Final report 11 -106 mimic screen .  Based on this inf ormation (or the absence of it) , a train controller must then 
form a view about where a train or other rail vehicle is  on the controlled rail network at any 
given time .   
4.3.3.  In this case, the train controller said that he had checked his mimic screen before issuing the 
track occupation authorisation , and saw the training shuttle travelling on the Up Main line.  
However , for some reason (which the train controller said he could not explain) he did not 
register the fact that the passenger train was not displayed on his mimic  screen.  The absence 
of the passenger train from the mimic screen was important .  It was telling the train controller 
(albeit in a complicated way) that the passenger train was still travelling through  dark territory  
between Signal A and Signal B .  This m eant that:    
 the passenger train had not yet passed  the Crown Road  level crossing, as the train 
controller had assumed  
 the section of track between  the Crown Road  level crossing and Signal D was not free for 
the person -in-charge to on-track his hi -rail vehicle and hi -rail excavator.  
4.3.4.  Figure 1 shows the Up Main line and the Down Main line between Papakura and Pukekohe, 
and the location of the Crown Road  level crossing near Paerata.  It also shows the 4 signals 
between Papakura and Paerata : 
 the 44 signal (645.59  km) south of Papakura ( Signal A ) 
 the 636.55  km interm ediate signal ( Signal B ) 
 the 634.71  km intermediate signal north of the Crown Road  level crossing ( Signal C ) 
 the 8L signal (632.97  km) south of the Crown Road  level crossing near Paerata ( Signal D ).  
This signal identifie d the boundary between Auckland and  Waikato train control.  
Figure 1 
Up Main line and Down Main line from Papakura to Pukekohe  
 
4.3.5.  Trains travelling between Signal B and Pukekohe were continuously displayed on the mimic 
screen, enabling train controllers to see where they were.  However, trains travelling between 
Signal A and Signal B were not, meaning that their movements on this section of track 
(approximately 9  km long) were not electronically visible to train control (dark territory).  In 
these cases, train control lers had to anticipate train movement s by plotting  progress on their 
paper train control diagram s, with the help of other information such as information from the 
train register.  
4.3.6.  When the location s of train s are not electronically visible to train controll ers, it can be  difficult 
for them  to interpret and understand the significance of information, particular ly when they 
 
 
Paerata  
Pukekohe  
Station  
to Auckland  
Crown Road l evel crossing 633.57 km  
Papakura  
Station  
Signal D  
632.97 
km  
Signal  B 
636.55 
km  
Signal A  
645.59 km  
 Signal C   
634.71 km  
 
 
 
 
train movements  
along this 9 km 
track not displayed  
in train  control  
Up Main  
line 
Down 
Main line  
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 11 >>
 are under pressure.  The Commission is aware that global position ing technology is available 
within KiwiRail that will enable train controllers to see a ll train movements in real time.  
However, this technology has not been formally introduced as an aid to controlling trains 
across the entire rail network .  If the train co ntroller in this case could have seen  in real time  
all train movements between Auckland and Pukekohe, and  if he had looked  at the screen 
before issuing the track occupa tion authority to the person -in-charge, he would have seen that 
the passenger train had not passed the Crown Road level crossing.  
4.3.7.  This does not mean  that the mechanisms that train control uses  to monitor rail movements 
and track activities  on the controlled rail network are  inadequate  for tracking trains and other 
rail vehicles or for determ ining their location s.  The fact that the majority of rail movements 
and track activities  have op erated on the network without incident  supports this.  However,  
these mechanisms  do require more input from train controllers , who must interpret and 
analyse the information that these mechanisms provide  or do not show .   
4.3.8.  A train controller's job would be easier , and public safety would be improved , if all trains and 
hi-rail vehicles on the controlled rail network  were electronic ally visible to them at all times.  
That way they could see at a glance all rail movements and track activities  on a particular 
section of track at any given time.  Train visibility through global positioning technology  will 
reduce the risk of collisions o ccurring .   
4.3.9.  Since this incident, KiwiRail has developed a system that shows train controllers the locations 
of all trains over 95% of its controlled network with a reasonable level of accuracy.  The 
system , known as "GeVis" , uses global positioning technol ogy.  A similar system using global 
positioning technology to identify the locations of all hi -rail vehicles is currently being 
designed .    
Findings  
5. The passenger train was not displayed on the train controller's mimic screen when 
he authorised the person -in-charge's track occupation.  A visual representation of 
the passenger train's location  would have reduced the risk of the train controller 
inadvertently creating a potential collision between the passenger train and the hi -
rail vehicles . 
6. Train controllers must determine where trains and other rail vehicles are on the 
controlled rail network at any given time, by interpreting, analysing and 
understanding  not only  information that they see but also information that is not 
obvious or displayed .  A train controller's job would be made easier , and public 
safety would be improved,  if all trains and hi -rail vehicles were electronically visible 
to train control  at all times.  If the train controller had had access to this technology 
at the time of the in cident , he would have seen (at a glance) that it was not safe to 
authorise the person -in-charge's track occupation.  This would have prevented the 
incident occurring.  
4.4. Train controller wellbeing  - nutrition and rest breaks  
Safety issue:  The train controller had not consumed any food for about 15 hours before the 
incident.  Train controllers who do not eat properly and regularly during their shift s and/or 
who do not take rest breaks during their shift s may become mentally fatigued.  In these 
circumstances, train controllers are more likely to make mistakes .  
4.4.1.  Train control is a mentally demanding  and stressful  role. Train controllers are required to 
make  numerous quick  decisions during their shifts  and t o get these right  all the time .  To do 
this train controllers  must  be in peak mental form throughout their shift s.  A lapse of 
concentrati on could result in an accident , with consequent loss of life and/or significant 
damage to property  and/or the environment .   

<< Page 12 >>
 Final report 11 -106 4.4.2.  To ensure that train controllers are mentally and physically fit to perform their duties, the 
Commission believes that there  are 2 basic , but important,  principles  that train controllers 
must  follow as a matter of standard practi ce, namely : 
 train controllers must have sufficient  nutrition before  and regularly during their shifts  
 train controllers must take regular rest breaks .  
4.4.3.  Research shows that in order for the brain to sustain optimal performance, the body needs a 
specific lev el of glucose.  Food  is a key  way to provide the body with this.   A modest reduction 
in available glucose (through inadequate nutrition) can have a measurable effect on the speed 
with which the brain responds to, and processes, information (De Feo et al., 1988).  
4.4.4.  In this case, the train controller's most recent  meal had been  about 15 hours before the 
incident  (i.e. his dinner the night before ).  When he awoke around 0445 on the day of the 
incident , he did not have breakfast .  Nor could he recall eating anything at work before the 
incident.  In both cases the train controller  chose not to  eat, at least intentionally in the first 
case because he preferred  not to have breakfast so early, and  in the second case  because he  
had not yet got around to doing  so. 
4.4.5.  The train controller said that about 4 0 minutes before the incident he had had a mild 
headache , although it was not severe enough for him to consider discontinuing his shift .  He  
nevertheless  had told the Network Control Manager  about it, then returned t o his desk  to 
continue his work .  Once the Network Control Manager was aware of the train controller's 
ailment, he had a responsibility to determine the extent of the ailment and put in place a 
process to monitor the train controller's wellbeing.  In this case no such action was taken.     
4.4.6.  It is unclear if  the train controller's headache was due to  his lack of food intake or some other 
factor .  It is also unclear  if his headache  affected his performance in any way (there was no 
evidence to enable the  Commis sion to determine this ).  Given that the train controller had not 
consumed any food for about 15 hours before he made his error, low blood glucose levels 
could not be excluded as a factor contributing to his performance.  
4.4.7.  Train controllers have a responsib ility to ensure that they are mentally fit to perform their 
duties.  This means eating properly and regularly  during  shifts.  This is not something that train 
controllers should  treat  casually or with indifference , because  they are performing a safety -
critical role  that requires high mental and cognitive  performance .   
4.4.8.  KiwiRail  also has a responsibility  to ensure that its train controllers  are properly educated  to 
treat  diet and nutritio n seriously .  It also has a responsibility to ensure  that they have  
opportunit ies to rest and take in nutrition .  Safety briefings and safety notices reminding train 
controllers of the importance of proper nutrition are important .  
4.4.9.  Rest breaks were  a matter that the Commission examined in its Staircase -Craigieburn rail 
inquiry8.  In that case the train controller 's significant work load meant that she felt she could 
not leave her room during  her 5 -hour shift to get something to eat  or to have a break .  The 
Commission found that it was likely that the train controller , in that case, was mentally 
fatigued  immediately before, and  at the time, she made an error . 
4.4.10.  Standard protocol within train control is not to provide train controllers with scheduled breaks 
within their shifts  because of the need for them to be near their desk s at all times to hear and 
respond to calls.  Rather, the practice is for informal breaks and interactions, including meal, 
toilet and  rest breaks , to be  taken as and when opportunit ies arise, mainly during quiet 
period s.  In most  cases then, train controllers eat at their desks, and have rest and toilet 
breaks as and when their workloads allow them to.  
                                                        
8  Commission re port 11 -102.  
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 13 >>
 4.4.11.  The Accident Investigation Board in Norway and Australian Rail Track Corporation Limited9 
both confirmed similar arrangements in t heir respective countries , where train controller shifts 
are 8 ho urs without scheduled breaks.  
4.4.12.  Notwithstanding this, there are risks when  people who perform safety -critical  functions work  
long hours without scheduled breaks, particularly if the work required is complex and mentally 
demanding , such as train control.  The fact that someone else may be doing the same thing is 
not a good reason  for continuing with a high -risk procedure involvi ng a safety -critical  function .  
4.4.13.  There is a wealth of cases in which long and irregular working hours have contributed to 
people making errors or that have been associated with a range of physical and mental health 
and injury risks (International Labour Organisation , 2011).  Eight hours without a scheduled 
break is a long time in which to expect a person to remain fully alert and in optimal mental 
form.  
4.4.14.  The Commission does not accept that KiwiRail's approach to train control, where its train 
controllers work their 8-hour shift s10 without scheduled breaks, is safe - certainly  not without 
proper processes in place to manage and mitigate the risk s of workplace fatigue and stress  
effectively .  This is a significant  safety issue that must  be properly assessed  from a risk 
perspective . 
4.4.15.  KiwiRail has since introduced a range of measures to improve the health and wellbeing of its 
train controllers.  These are detailed i n the "Safety action s" section of this report.  
Finding s  
7. Given that the train controller had not consumed any food for about 15 hours 
before he made his error , low blood glucose levels could not be excluded  as a 
factor contributing to the train controller's performance.  
8. Train controllers must ensure that they eat properly and regularly during shifts.  
This cannot be treated casually or w ith indifference , when they are performing 
such a safety -critical  role.   
9. KiwiRail must ensure that train controllers treat diet and nutrition seriously, that 
food is easily accessible by train controllers during their shifts and that train 
controllers are given breaks to rest and have adequate nutrition .   
10. KiwiRail's approach  to train control, where its train controllers work 8 -hour shift s 
without scheduled breaks, is not safe unless processes are in place to manage 
and mitigate the risks of fatigue and stress  effectively .  
 
4.5. Communication  
4.5.1.  This incident highlights the importance of clear communication and the need for train 
controllers, and those who communicate with train control, to check and clarify their 
understanding of communications.  
4.5.2.  The driver of the passenger train said that he had not hear d the train controlle r authorising the 
person -in-charge to occupy the section of track ahead of his train , even though he had been  
on the same radio frequency.  He said that he had reduced the volume on his train radio and 
had trained himself to focus only on those calls made to his call sign, and to ignore all other 
radio communications.  Although there was no rule requiring the train driver to listen to all 
                                                        
9  Australian Rail Track Corporation L imited  is responsible for the management of over 8500 route of 
standard -gauge interstate track in South Australia, Victoria, Western Australia, Queensland and New 
South Wales.  It also manages the Hunter Valley coal rail network, and other regional rail links, in New 
South Wales.  
10  Shifts are nominally 8 hours, but can be up to 12 hours during weekends.  

<< Page 14 >>
 Final report 11 -106 radio communications, best practice and good crew resource management11 dictated that he 
and other drivers do this.  The fact that he did not "tune in " to the radio conversation between 
the train controller and the person -in-charge in this case meant that an opportunity was lost to 
alert train control to the potential conflic t involving his own train.  
4.5.3.  The Commission made reference to the need for good communication and crew resource 
management in its report on a near -head -on collision near Papakura on  14 January 2011 .  In 
that report the Commission recommended that the Chief E xecutive of the NZ Transport Agency 
require the Executive of the National Rail System Standard to develop standards to ensure 
that all rail participants meet a consistently high level of crew resource management and 
communication that includes the use of s tandard rail phraseology.  
4.5.4.  On 16 April 2012 the Chief Executive of the NZ Transport Agency replied that he intended to 
work closely with the National Rail System Standard Executive with an aim of implementing 
and closing out this recommendation as soon as p racticable.  He also said that the NZ 
Transport Agency sat on the National Rail System Standard  Executive as an observer and that 
he would  also consider a strategy for rail operators outside the National Rail System Standard  
coverage.  
4.5.5.  The recommendation re mains open pending suitable action on this safety issue . 
Finding  
11. The passenger train driver could have heard the train controller authorising a track 
occupation directly in the path of his train and intervened to prevent the conflict, 
but he lost that oppo rtunity because he routinely turned down the volume on his 
train radio and only actively listened for radio traffic in which  his train number was 
mentioned.  
                                                        
11  Crew resource management can be defined as a management system that makes optimum use of all 
available resources (e.g. equipment, procedures and people) to promote safety and enhance the 
efficiency of operations.  It encompasses a wide range of knowledge, skills and attitudes , including 
communications, situational awarene ss, problem -solving, decision -making and teamwork.   
 
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 15 >>
 5. Findings  
5.1. The train controller authorised a track occupation on a section of track in front of an 
advancing passenger train because he did not first check the whereabouts of all other trains 
in the area as required by KiwiRail rules and procedures.  
5.2. The trai n controller did not check the location of the passenger train because he made an 
assumption about its location , based on additional information given  by the person -in-charge 
of the track maintenance group.   
5.3. KiwiRail must take all available steps to ensur e that train controllers do not make 
assumptions.  Train controllers must authorise track occupations on verified information only.  
5.4. The person -in-charge provided additional information when he said , "A subby has just gone 
past on the Down Main".  This info rmation confused the train controller.  
5.5. The passenger train was not displayed on the train controller's mimic screen when he 
authorised the person -in-charge's track occupation.  A visual representation of the passenger 
train's location would have reduced th e risk of the train controller inadvertently creating a 
potential collision between the passenger train and the hi -rail vehicles.  
5.6. Train controllers must determine where trains and other rail vehicles are on the controlled rail 
network at any given time, by  interpreting, analysing and understanding  not only  information 
that they see but also information that is not obvious or displayed.  A train controller's job 
would be made easier, and public safety would be improved, if all trains and hi -rail vehicles 
were electronically visible to train control at all times.  If the train controller  had had access to 
this technology at the time of the incident , he would have seen (at a glance) that it was not 
safe to authorise the person -in-charge's track occupation.  Thi s would have prevented the 
incident occurring.  
5.7. Given that the train controller had not consumed any food for about 15 hours before he made 
his error , low blood glucose levels could not be excluded as a factor contributing to the train 
controller's performa nce. 
5.8. Train controllers must ensure that they eat properly and regularly during shifts.  This cannot be 
treated casually or with indifference , when they are performing such a safety -critical  role.   
5.9. KiwiRail must ensure that train controllers treat diet and  nutrition seriously, that food is easily 
accessible by train controllers during their shifts and that train controllers are given breaks to 
rest and have adequate nutrition.   
5.10.  KiwiRail's approach to train control, where its train controllers work 8 -hour s hifts without 
scheduled breaks, is not safe unless processes are in place to manage and mitigate the risks 
of fatigue and stress  effectively .  
5.11.  The passenger train driver could have heard the train controller authorising a track occupation 
directly in the p ath of his train and intervened to prevent the conflict, but he lost that 
opportunity because he routinely turned down the volume on his train radio and only actively 
listened for radio traffic in which  his train number was mentioned.  

<< Page 16 >>
 Final report 11 -106 6. Key lessons  
6.1. Train controllers need to verify all information before authorising track occupation s.  If they 
cannot see trains on the ir mimic screen s, they must make radio contact with the driver s to 
verify the trains ' location s in order to give authorisation s. 
6.2. The risk of train controllers making assumptions must be managed on an ongoing basis.  
6.3. Train controller s who are significantly fatigued  (mentally)  during their shift s can be  a risk to 
public transport safety.  Having a  proper diet  and nutrition and taking rest breaks during shifts 
are crucial for minimising this risk.  
6.4. Food must be easily accessible by train controllers, and train controllers must be given 
adequate breaks during their shifts to enable them to eat and to rest. 
  
  
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 17 >>
 7. Safety actions  
General  
7.1. The Commission classifies  safety actions  by 2 types : 
(a) safety actions  taken by the regulator or an operator to address safety issues identified 
by the Commission during an inquiry that would otherwise result in the Commission 
issuing a recommendation  
(b) safety  actions taken by the regulator  or an operator  to address other safety issues that 
would not normally result in the Commission issuing a recommendation.  
Safety a ctions  address ing safety issues identified during an inquiry  
7.2. On 18 July 2013 KiwiRail advised that KiwiRail Network Operating Procedures, Train Control, 
Section 10.1 , Instructions 14.1.2 and 14.1.3 will be amended by information bulletin effective 
from 1 August 2013 .  These amendments and covering letter stated:  

<< Page 18 >>
 Final report 11 -106  

  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 19 >>
 


<< Page 20 >>
 Final report 11 -106  

  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 21 >>
  
7.3.  On 15 October 2013 KiwiRail stated in part:  
Following on from Commission's investigation report 11 -102, KiwiRail has 
introduced new initiatives recently including a 'step away for 5' initiative 
encourag ing Train Controllers to take mini breaks.  We now provide fresh fruit, 
nutitional bars and milk beverages in Train Control.  [ National Train Control 
Centre} NTCC records the data on breaks.  In addition Network Control Managers 
regularly walk the centre t o check on the wellbeing of staff.  This is also recorded.  
KiwiRail has also introduced a wellness portal which provides employees 
information on health and wellbeing.  
 
 


<< Page 22 >>
 Final report 11 -106 8. Recommendations  
8.1. General  
8.1.1.  The Commission may issue, or give notice of,  recommendations to any person or organisation 
that it considers the most appropriate to address the identified safety issues, depending on 
whether these safety issues are applicable to a single operator only or to the wider transport 
sector.   
8.1.2.  In this cas e the Commission makes 3 recommendations to the Chief Executive of KiwiRail.  
The Commission believes that KiwiRail is the appropriate organisation to address the safety 
issues reflected in these recommendations , as the issues arose from the operations of one of 
its business units (train control).   
8.1.3.  The final recommendation is made to the Chief Executive of the N Z Transport Agency.  The N Z 
Transport Agency has various powers under the Railways Act 2005 to monitor and ensure rail 
parti cipants ' performance and compliance.  The Commission, therefore, recommends that the 
NZ Transport Agency exercise all appropriate powers to ensure that KiwiRail is taking all 
appropriate steps to implement its recommendations.     
8.1.4.  In the interests of trans port safety it is important that these recommendations are 
implemented without delay to help prevent similar accidents or incidents occurring in the 
future.  
New recommendations  
8.2. Recommendation 1 : Assumptions about the location s of trains  
8.2.1.  The train controlle r in this  case made an assumption that the passenger train had passed a 
particular location based on information from the  person -in-charge.  Rather than verifying the 
train's location, the train controller acted on his assumption and authorised the person -in-
charge to occupy a section of track that the passenger train was approaching.  
Train controller s must not  make assumption s about the location s of trains without first 
verifying their location s.  Unless KiwiRail and train controllers remain alert to this risk and take 
all appropriate steps to minimise the likelihood of train controllers making assumptions, 
further incidents could occur, perhaps with more serious consequences . 
The Commission recommen ds that the Chief Executive of KiwiRail  ensure  that appropriate 
mechanisms are in place, and are being applied, to  minimise the likelihood of train controllers 
making assumptions ab out the location s of trains and other rail vehicles . (025/13)  
On 7 November 2013 the Chief Executive of KiwiRail replied  in part : 
Following on from the Commission's investigation report 11 -102, KiwiRail has made 
significant changes in respect to mitigating the risk of Train Controllers making 
assumptions by introducing enhanced "Block to be clear" verification process, 
implemented on 1 August 2013 by Bulletin 449 [refer below].  
Where track safety rules require train control to verify the position of a train 
to ensure that it is passed the on -tracking location, this must be performed 
by: 
 Observing all track circuits are clear within the on -tracking location 
when within station limits of an interlocked station, or  
 Observing all track circuits are clear between adjacent stations for 
any continuously detected block sercion, or 
 Obtaining verbal advice and confirmation of a trains position form 
the Locomotive Engineer that it is clear of the next station (incl 
Metro Platforms & Intermediate Boards) when the on -tracking 
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 23 >>
 location is in dark territory or non -continuously detected (DLAS, 
TWC, SLAS, ASR)  
This new procedure has been reinforced by the Manager Network Operations by way 
of a Safety Briefing and a personal letter to all Train Control Personnel, outlining the 
change in procedure.  
Compliance with the new process is monitore d through our safety observation 
process.  
8.3. Recommendation 2: NZ Transport Agency  
8.3.1.  It is important that KiwiRail address es the above recommendation, which is aimed at 
addressing the safety issues examined in this report.  The N Z Transport Agency has various 
powers under the Railways Act 2005 to monitor and ensure KiwiRail's performance and 
compliance.   
The Commission recommends that the Chief Executive of the N Z Transport Agency  take all 
appropriate steps to ensure that KiwiRail  addresses the above recommendation . (026/13)  
On 7 November 2013  the acting Manager Rail Safety at  New Zealand Transport Agency  
replied:  
Recommendation 025/13 that the Commission has direct to the Chief Executive of 
KiwiRail is noted.  Recommendation 026/13 m ade to the Chief Executive of the NZ 
Transport Agency is accepted.  Discussions on these recommendations will be 
initiated on the publication of the report.  These discussions will include a projected 
timeframe for implementation.  This will be advised to TAIC in due course.  
Previous recommendation s 
8.4. Train controller wellbeing  -nutrition  and rest breaks  
At the time that the train controller made his error, he had not eaten anything for about 15 
hours.  It is likely then that his glucose levels were low when he authorised the person -in-
charge's track occupation.  Train controllers have a responsibility to ensure that they are 
mentally fit to perform their duties.  This means eating properly and regularly during their 
shifts.  KiwiRail also has a responsibility to ensure that food is easily accessible by train 
controllers during their shifts and that train controllers are gi ven breaks to enable them to eat 
this food and to rest.  
This safety issue was identified in the Crown's Staircase/Craigieburn inquiry , where the train 
controller in that case worked a 5 -hour shift without eating or having a break.  In its 
Staircase/Craigi eburn report, the Commission made the following recommendation:  
The Commission recommends that the Chief Executive of KiwiRail ensure that  train control 
management has appropriate mechanisms in place to : 
 detect and manage stress and fatigue, including appropriate training and education  
 remind train controllers about  the importance of eating properly and regularly during 
their shifts;  and 
 provide train controllers  with certainty of reasonable  breaks  during their shifts . 
(014/13)  
The same recommendation a nd the safety issue it addresses appl y to this report.  
  

<< Page 24 >>
 Final report 11 -106 8.5. Train visibility  
8.5.1.  Only about 40% of the controlled rail network is configured to display the location s of trains on 
train control mimic screen s.  This makes it challenging for train controllers to determine the 
exact location s of rail movements and track activities on the network in all cases.  The best 
they can do is to determine the most likely location s using a range of mechanisms, including 
train control diagram s, mimic screens, information from  the electronic train register, 
compulsory radio calls and the read -back of communications.  For the most part, these 
mechanisms work well.  
8.5.2.  However, rail vehicles not being visible  will always present a challenge to train controllers who 
must interpret, a nalyse and understand information .  This makes their job complex and 
demanding.  A high reliance on human input means that there will always be a risk of human 
error.  
8.5.3.  Since this incident, global positioning technology has become  available that would enable  
train controllers to monitor train movements in real time across 95% of the controlled network 
with a reasonable level of accuracy.  KiwiRail intends to extend this technology to other rail 
vehicles operating on the controlled network.    
8.5.4.  Had the train con troller in this case had access to this technology and been able to see , at a 
glance, all train movements between Auckland and Pukekohe in real time, and if he had 
glanced at the screen before issuing the track occupation authority to the person -in-charge,  he 
would have seen that the passenger train had not yet passed the Crown Road level crossing .   
8.5.5.  This same safety issue was identified in the Commission's Staircase/Craigieburn inquiry.  In 
that report the Commission made the following recommendation :  
The Commission recommends that the Chief Executive of KiwiRail  take all appropriate steps 
to ensure that all rail vehicles travelling on the controlled rail network are electronically visible 
to train control . (016/13)  
8.6. The same recommendation and the safet y issue it addresses appl y to this report.  
  
  
Final report 11 -106 
<< Page 25 >>
 9. References  
De Feo et al., (1988) Modest decrements in plasma glucose concentration cause early impairment 
in cognitive function and later activation of glucose conterregulation in the absence of hypoglycaemic 
symptoms in normal man.  J Clin Invest, 28: August, 436 -444.  
 
International Labour Organisation, (2011), The effects of working time on productivity and firm 
performance; a research synthesis paper. Conditions of Work and Employment Series No.33.  
 
Ontrack, R ail Operating Procedures: Section 10.1: Operating Instructions for Train Control.  Ontrack.  
23 November 2009.  
 
Ontrack, Rail Operating Rules and Procedures: Section 12: Radio Communication.  Ontrack.  30 June 
2008.  
 
Ontrack, Rail Operating Rules: Section 9: Track Safety Rules.  Ontrack.  25 November 2008.  
 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission, Inquiry 11 -102: Near collision between a loaded coal 
train and an alicart between Staircase and Craigieburn, 13 April 2011.  
 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission, Rail occurrence report 07 -108.  Express freight train 
720; track warrant overrun at Seddon, Main North Line.  12 May 2007  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
Recent railway occurrence reports published by  
the Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
(most recent at top of list)  
 
11-102 Track occupation irregularity, leading to near head -on collision, Staircase -
Craigieburn, 13 April 2011  
RO-2013 -104 Urgent Recommendations: Derailment of metro passenger Trai n 8219,  
Wellington, 20 May 2013  
11-103 Track workers nearly struck by passenger train, near Paekakariki, North Island 
Main Trunk, 25 August 2011  
10-101 wrong route setting, high -speed transit through turnout, near miss and SPAD 
(signal passed at danger),  Tamaki, 13 August 2010  
11-104 Freight Train 261 collision with bus, Beach Road level crossing, Paekakariki, 31 
October 2011  
10-102 collision between 2 metro passenger trains, after one struck a landslide and 
derailed between Plimmerton and Pukerua Bay, North Island Main Trunk, 30 
September 2010    
07-102 (incorporating inquiry 07 -111) freight train mainline derailments, various locations 
on the national network, from 6 March 2007 to 1 October 2009  
11-101 Wrong line running irregularity, leading to a potential head -on collision, Papakura - 
Wiri, 14 January 2011  
08-102 Metro passenger train derailment, Sylvia Park, 14 April 2008 (incorporating 
inquiries 08 -104 and 08 -107) Diesel motor fires on board metro passenger trains, 
3 June 2008 and 25 July 2008  
 
08-111 Express freight Train 524, derailment, near Puketutu, North Island Main Trunk, 3 
October 2008  
08-112 Safe working irregularity resulting in a collision and derailment at Cass Station  
on the Midland line, 8 November 2008  
09-102 Passenger fatality after falling between platform and passenger Train 8125, 
Newmarket West station, 1 July 2009  
08-109 Passenger express  Train 9113, platform overrun resulting in signal passed at 
danger , Fruitvale Road Station, North Auckland Line, 4 September 2008  
07-114 Derailment caused by a wheel -bearing failure, Hunt ly, 19 October 2007, and 11 
subsequent wheel -bearing failures at various locations during the following 12 
month period  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Price $ 15.00         ISSN 1178 -4164 (Print)  
ISSN 1179 -9102 (Online)  
