"2014_105","[10  11  12  13  14  15  16]","30.0","Fatigue Management is a significant contributor to the incident, as the rail protection officer was likely experiencing fatigue due to ""a number of factors including his: relatively high workload and long work days in the week leading up to the incident, excessively long duty work period of 52.5 hours following a full work week, possible sleep restriction on Monday 4 August through to Wednesday 6 August, severe sleep restriction on Friday 8 August, lack of opportunity to recover from this sleep restriction before the planned work period, need to perform work-related duties during his biological night when he would normally be asleep"" (4.4.13). The impaired judgment of the rail protection officer, which included making the incorrect assumption that the work had been completed and the track was clear, was consistent with fatigue-related performance (4.4.14). Additionally, the rail protection officer's day-to-day workload was not effectively managed by KiwiRail, contributing to an underlying level of fatigue at the time of the incident (5.5).
","0.0","25.0","Human Error and Assumptions played a critical role in the incident. The rail protection officer made the incorrect assumption that the work had been completed and the track was clear without first checking positively that it was (5.1). This assumption led to the near collision. The rail protection officer also failed to contact the incoming leading hands to confirm that they had received the instruction to call him when the track was clear, which could have prevented the incident (4.2.12). Furthermore, the rail protection officer informed the train controller that he was on site when he was not, indicating a recognition that he should have been present at the time (4.2.16).
","0.0","10.0","Training and Competency are relevant as the incident highlighted the need for better guidance on the level of presence required of the rail protection officer (4.2.6). However, there is insufficient information in the document to directly link the incident to a lack of training or competency on the part of the rail protection officer or other personnel involved.
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence in the document to suggest that a lack of training or familiarity with equipment contributed to the incident. Therefore, this safety theme is not assigned any percentage.
","0.0","5.0","Crew Resource Management is somewhat relevant, as the rail protection officer was responsible for coordinating rail movements within and through the protected work area and communicating with train control (4.2.2). However, the failure in this incident seems to be more related to individual decision-making and fatigue rather than teamwork or resource management issues.
","0.0","15.0","Adherence to Safety Procedures is a significant factor, as the rail protection officer breached KiwiRail rules by handing back the track warrant without positively establishing that the work group at Bridge 49 was off and clear (4.2.15). Additionally, the KiwiRail process for planning and authorizing the worksite was not entirely followed, with a late application and the omission of a communication plan contributing to the incident (5.3).
","0.0","5.0","Organizational Safety Culture is implicated as KiwiRail did not effectively manage the rail protection officer's day-to-day workload, which likely contributed to his fatigue (5.5). However, there is insufficient information to fully assess the broader safety culture within KiwiRail based on the document provided.
","0.0","5.0","Risk Management and Analysis is relevant because the planning and approval process for the worksite did not fully identify the need to relieve the rail protection officer (4.1.3, 4.2.4). However, the document does not provide enough detail to determine the extent to which risk management and analysis processes were deficient.
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence in the document to suggest that a lack of regulatory oversight and compliance contributed to the incident. Therefore, this safety theme is not assigned any percentage.
","0.0","5.0","Situational Awareness is relevant as the rail protection officer's lack of presence on-site at the critical time led to a failure to recognize that the work at Bridge 49 was not complete and that it was unsafe for trains to pass (4.2.5). This lack of situational awareness directly contributed to the near collision.
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence in the document to suggest that emergency response preparedness was a factor in the incident. Therefore, this safety theme is not assigned any percentage.
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence in the document to suggest that maintenance and inspection regimes were a factor in the incident. Therefore, this safety theme is not assigned any percentage.
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence in the document to suggest that the use of automation contributed to the incident. Therefore, this safety theme is not assigned any percentage.
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence in the document to suggest that weather conditions affected decision-making or contributed to the incident. Therefore, this safety theme is not assigned any percentage.
","0.0","0.0","Although communication was a factor, as the rail protection officer relied on a verbal instruction that was not properly communicated (4.2.11), the document does not provide enough detail to attribute this to a systemic communication breakdown within KiwiRail. Therefore, this safety theme is not assigned any percentage.
","0.0","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the document that contributed to the incident. Therefore, the ""Other"" category is not assigned any percentage.","0.0","true","N/A"
