"2017_002","[10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the accident within the provided document. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the accident analysis.
","0.0","20.0","The report suggests that the pilot may not have maintained sufficient clearance from the tree canopy (""either both the helicopter and the load inadvertently made contact with the tree canopy, or the pilot was unable to maintain sufficient clearance from the tree canopy"" (3.10)). This indicates a possible human error in judgment or assumptions about the flight path and clearance.
","0.0","0.0","There is no specific mention of a lack of training or competency contributing to the accident. The report does not provide evidence that the pilot's training or competency was a factor.
","0.0","0.0","The report does not indicate that a lack of training or familiarity with the helicopter's equipment contributed to the accident. Therefore, this theme is not applicable based on the available information.
","0.0","0.0","Crew Resource Management does not appear to be a factor in the accident, as there is no mention of teamwork, communication, or decision-making issues within the crew contributing to the accident.
","0.0","10.0","The report indicates that the helicopter had not been maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and the Civil Aviation Rules (""the helicopter had not been maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and the Civil Aviation Rules"" (4.6)). This suggests a lack of adherence to safety procedures, which could have contributed to the accident.
","0.0","10.0","The report highlights several maintenance issues and unapproved modifications to the helicopter, indicating a possible lack of a strong safety culture within the organization responsible for the helicopter's upkeep (""unapproved maintenance and modifications had been carried out on the helicopter"" (3.34)).
","0.0","1.667","The report does not directly address risk management and analysis as a contributing factor. However, the pilot's decision to fly over densely forested terrain when alternative flight paths were available suggests a potential lack of risk assessment (""the pilot flew over densely forested terrain, when alternative flight paths were available that offered less risk"" (4.4)).
","2.887","15.0","The report indicates multiple instances of the pilot/owner operating outside the privileges extended to a private pilot or aircraft owner and not complying with the Civil Aviation Rules (""multiple examples of the pilot/owner operating outside the privileges extended to a private pilot or aircraft owner and not complying with the Civil Aviation Rules"" (3.36)). This lack of compliance with regulations could have contributed to the accident.
","0.0","11.667","The report suggests that the pilot's vision may have been affected by the sun, and the trees being in shadow limited the pilot's ability to determine the helicopter's height above the tree canopy (""It was possible that the pilot's vision was affected by the sun, and the trees being in shadow limited the pilot's ability to determine the helicopter's height above the tree canopy"" (3.12)). This indicates a loss of situational awareness that could have contributed to the accident.
","2.887","0.0","There is no mention of emergency response preparedness or its effectiveness in the context of the accident within the provided document. Therefore, this theme is not applicable to the accident analysis.
","0.0","18.333","The report details several maintenance issues with the helicopter, including engine wear and unapproved repairs, which suggest that maintenance and inspection regimes were not properly followed (""the engine showed signs of wear that were inconsistent with the hours recorded in its logbook"" (4.6)). This lack of proper maintenance and inspection could have significantly contributed to the accident.
","2.887","0.0","The use of automation is not mentioned as a factor in the accident. The report does not provide evidence that automation contributed to the accident.
","0.0","8.333","The report mentions that the wind at the time of the accident was light and variable, with the possibility of sudden tailwind gusts, and that the sun's position may have affected the pilot's vision (""It was possible that the pilot experienced a sudden tailwind gust during take-off"" (3.11), ""It was possible that the pilot's vision was affected by the sun"" (3.12)). These weather conditions could have influenced the pilot's decision-making and contributed to the accident.
","2.887","1.667","While the report does not explicitly mention communication breakdown as a contributing factor, the lack of compliance with safety regulations and the pilot's decision to conduct a commercial flight without the necessary license suggest a breakdown in communication regarding regulatory requirements (""the pilot was intending to carry the hunter for reward without holding a commercial pilot licence or operating under an air operator certificate"" (3.35)).
","2.887","3.333","Based on the information provided in the report, all relevant safety themes have been addressed. There is no indication of additional factors that would require the creation of an ""Other"" safety theme.","5.774","true","N/A"
