"2020_101","[12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the truck driver's actions in the report, so it is not possible to attribute any of the accident's cause to fatigue management.
","0.0","40.0","The accident was significantly influenced by the truck driver's actions, which can be attributed to human error. The Commission's analysis determined that ""the truck's slow forward crawl towards the level crossing in the lead-up to the collision was very likely due to its driver not applying sufficient pressure to the brake pedal"" (12.4). Additionally, the driver was ""very likely unaware of the truck's forward movement"" and their attention was focused on ""some undetermined distraction within the truck's cab"" (12.4, 13.3). This indicates a lapse in the driver's situational awareness and a failure to maintain control of the vehicle, which are elements of human error and assumptions.
","0.0","0.0","The report does not provide information on the truck driver's training and competency, so there is insufficient information to attribute this as a contributing factor to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is no indication in the report that a lack of training or familiarity with the truck contributed to the accident, so this theme is not considered a contributing factor.
","0.0","0.0","Crew Resource Management does not appear to be a relevant factor in this accident, as the situation involved a single truck driver and there is no mention of teamwork or resource management issues.
","0.0","10.0","While the report does not explicitly mention a breach of safety procedures by the truck driver, the law prohibits the use of mobile phones while driving, and the Commission was unable to determine if the truck driver was using the hands-free mounting at the time of the accident (13.4). The potential use of a mobile phone could indicate a lack of adherence to safety procedures, which may have contributed to the driver's distraction and subsequent accident.
","0.0","5.0","The absence of documented SFAIRP assessments for level crossing risk treatments indicates a potential issue with the organizational safety culture within the entities responsible for managing level crossing risks (14.7). This reflects on the collective approach to safety and risk management, which, while not a direct cause of the accident, is a safety issue that could influence future safety outcomes.
","0.0","10.0","The report identifies issues with risk management and analysis, particularly in the context of level crossing safety. It was noted that ""SFAIRP assessments were not being routinely carried out for risk treatments recommended in LCSIA reports"" (14.7). Although this did not directly cause the accident, it is a safety issue that affects the overall risk at level crossings and could contribute to future incidents.
","0.0","5.0","The report indicates a lack of formal SFAIRP assessment for recommended risk treatments, which suggests issues with regulatory oversight and compliance (14.7). While this did not directly contribute to the accident, it is a systemic issue that could affect the safety of level crossings and the effectiveness of safety measures.
","0.0","30.0","The truck driver's lack of situational awareness was a critical factor in the accident. The Commission found it ""very likely that the truck driver's peripheral vision cues outside of the cab were restricted"" and that they were ""unable to detect the truck's subtle forward movement"" (12.5). Furthermore, the driver believed the truck to be stationary and felt it safe to divert their attention from the truck's surroundings (13.3). This loss of situational awareness directly contributed to the truck moving onto the level crossing and into the path of the train.
","0.0","0.0","The report does not discuss emergency response preparedness as a contributing factor to the accident, so it cannot be considered in the weighting.
","0.0","0.0","The truck's mechanical condition, including its braking system, was not a factor in the accident, as ""no such issues were noted in the truck's pre-accident or post-accident inspections"" (12.4).
","0.0","0.0","The use of automation is not mentioned as a contributing factor in the accident, and there is no evidence to suggest that automated systems played a role in the truck's movement onto the level crossing.
","0.0","0.0","Although the position of the sun may have limited the truck driver's peripheral vision cues, it is judged ""very unlikely to have significantly contributed to this accident"" (13.6).
","0.0","0.0","There is no evidence of communication breakdown contributing to the accident, as the issue was related to the truck driver's individual actions and situational awareness.
","0.0","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the report that contributed to the accident outside of those already defined.","0.0","true","N/A"
