"2014_101","[10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue being a factor in the accident within the provided document. Therefore, it is not possible to attribute any percentage of the accident to fatigue management.
","<NA>","20.0","The driver of the truck did not stop at the compulsory stop sign before driving onto the level crossing, which suggests a human error or assumption that it was safe to proceed (""The driver did not stop his truck at the compulsory stop sign before driving onto the level crossing"" (4.2.12)). This error contributed to the truck becoming stuck and the subsequent collision.
","<NA>","0.0","There is no information provided in the document that suggests a lack of training or competency contributed to the accident. Therefore, this theme cannot be assigned a percentage.
","<NA>","0.0","The document does not indicate that a lack of training or familiarity with equipment was a contributing factor to the accident. Thus, this theme cannot be assigned a percentage.
","<NA>","0.0","Crew Resource Management does not appear to be a relevant factor in the accident as per the information provided in the document. Therefore, this theme cannot be assigned a percentage.
","<NA>","20.0","The truck driver's failure to adhere to the safety procedure of stopping at the stop sign contributed to the accident (""The driver did not stop his truck at the compulsory stop sign before driving onto the level crossing"" (4.2.12)).
","<NA>","0.0","There is insufficient information to determine if organizational safety culture played a role in the accident. Therefore, this theme cannot be assigned a percentage.
","<NA>","10.0","The sighting distances at the level crossing did not meet the minimum standards, indicating a potential lapse in risk management and analysis (""The sighting distances for road users of the Te Onetea Road level crossing did not meet the minimum standards"" (5.7)).
","<NA>","10.0","The level crossing's sighting distances did not comply with the NZ Transport Agency's Traffic Control Devices Manual, suggesting issues with regulatory oversight and compliance (""The sighting distances available to drivers of long vehicles to cross the Te Onetea Road level crossing safely did not comply with the NZ Transport Agency's Traffic Control Devices Manual"" (4.3)).
","<NA>","10.0","The truck driver's potential lack of situational awareness may have contributed to the accident, as it is unclear whether the driver saw or heard the train before the collision (""It could not be established with any certainty whether the truck driver saw or heard the train in the seconds leading up to the collision"" (5.5)).
","<NA>","0.0","There is no mention of emergency response preparedness being a factor in the accident within the provided document. Therefore, this theme cannot be assigned a percentage.
","<NA>","0.0","The document states that no faults were found on the truck, and it is considered unlikely that a defect contributed to the accident (""No faults were found on either the semi-trailer or the driving unit"" (4.1.6)). Therefore, maintenance and inspection regimes are not considered a contributing factor.
","<NA>","0.0","Automation does not appear to be a relevant factor in the accident as per the information provided in the document. Therefore, this theme cannot be assigned a percentage.
","<NA>","0.0","The document does not mention weather conditions as a contributing factor to the accident. Therefore, this theme cannot be assigned a percentage.
","<NA>","0.0","There is no evidence in the document of a communication breakdown contributing to the accident. Therefore, this theme cannot be assigned a percentage.
","<NA>","30.0","The road profile and alignment contributed significantly to the accident, as the truck became stuck on the level crossing due to insufficient ground clearance and the road's vertical alignment (""The profile or vertical alignment of the eastbound road approach to the Te Onetea Road level crossing prevented the truck, set at a road-legal ground clearance height, passing over the level crossing without becoming stuck"" (5.8)). This issue is not covered by the predefined safety themes, hence the addition of ""Other"".","<NA>","true","N/A"
