"2017_104","[6  7  8  9  10  11  12]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the incident in the provided document. The report does not discuss any aspect of fatigue management as a factor in the incident.
","0.0","0.0","The report does not indicate that human error or assumptions made by individuals were a contributing factor to the immobilization of the train for the spray-painting attack.
","0.0","26.667","The report identifies a lack of policies or procedures to guide train crew in responding to unusual situations, which suggests a gap in training and competency. ""Transdev had no policies or procedures in place to guide its train crew in responding to unusual situations"" (4.4), and ""the train crew was not trained in alternative options"" (4.4.8).
","5.774","3.333","There is no indication in the report that a lack of training or familiarity with equipment contributed to the incident. The emergency door release system functioned as intended and was not misused by the train crew.
","5.774","10.0","The report suggests that the train crew did not effectively manage the resources available to them, such as making a direct call to the Police, which could have improved the emergency response. ""Both the driver and the train manager stated that they had not been trained to ring 111"" (4.4.3), and ""Had the train crew contacted emergency services directly, it is likely that the necessary information would have been passed on with more accuracy and in a timelier fashion"" (4.5.8).
","0.0","0.0","The report does not indicate that the incident was caused by a failure to adhere to safety procedures by the train crew or other personnel.
","0.0","16.667","The lack of procedures and training for dealing with unusual situations may reflect on the organizational safety culture at Transdev. ""At the time of this incident Transdev was writing procedures for staff to follow in the event of various physical threats. However, these procedures had yet to be included in any formal training package for train crews"" (4.4.6).
","5.774","10.0","The report indicates that there were potential safety and security vulnerabilities within the rail passenger operation that were highlighted by the incident. ""The deliberate act of immobilising a passenger train in order to carry out an attack highlighted potential safety and security vulnerabilities within the rail passenger operation"" (4.1.2).
","0.0","0.0","There is no mention of a lack of regulatory oversight or non-compliance with regulations as a contributing factor to the incident.
","0.0","10.0","The train crew's situational awareness may have been limited due to the lack of training and procedures for such incidents. ""It was likely that this course of action was taken simply because the train crew was not trained in alternative options"" (4.4.8).
","0.0","13.333","The report highlights the lack of preparedness in the train crew's response to the incident, indicating a need for better training and procedures. ""The Commission has made a recommendation to Transdev Auckland to improve the quality of training for train crews, including training on liaising with emergency services, so that they are better equipped to respond to unusual situations"" (4.4.9).
","5.774","0.0","The incident was not related to equipment maintenance or inspection issues. The emergency door release system was functioning as designed.
","0.0","0.0","Automation was not a factor in the incident, as the emergency door release system functioned correctly and its use was deliberate by the attackers, not an automated process.
","0.0","0.0","Weather conditions were not mentioned as a contributing factor to the incident.
","0.0","10.0","The report indicates that communication breakdown played a significant role in the incident. The train crew did not directly contact emergency services, which affected the timeliness and accuracy of the information relayed to the Police. ""As neither the driver nor the train manager contacted the Police communications centre directly, the call takers were receiving some of the information from parties who were not at the scene"" (4.5.5), and ""Had the train crew contacted emergency services directly, it is likely that the necessary information would have been passed on with more accuracy and in a timelier fashion"" (4.5.8).
","10.0","0.0","There is no need to add an ""Other"" safety theme as the predefined themes cover the factors mentioned in the report.","0.0","true","N/A"
