"2016_206","[14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23]","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which fatigue management contributed to the accident. The document does not mention the skipper or crew being fatigued or overworked.
","0.0","20.0","The skipper's decision to cross the bar despite the forecasted weather conditions and the state of the tide indicates a significant human error and assumption that it was safe to proceed. ""The forecast weather conditions, in combination with the state of the tide, were not suitable for the Francie to head out over the Kaipara Harbour bar and make a safe return"" (5.1). Additionally, the skipper's assumption that the conditions would not change significantly for the return journey contributed to the accident (4.3.11).
","0.0","13.333","The skipper demonstrated repeated non-compliance with the Maritime Rules, which could be attributed to his low experience and a too high acceptance of risk (4.4.2). The Francie's MTOP had exemplary written procedures, but the skipper's actions did not reflect an understanding of the dangers of bar crossing (4.4.3). This gap between written procedures and actual practice points to issues with training and competency.
","2.887","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which training and familiarity with equipment contributed to the accident. The document does not discuss any issues related to the crew's knowledge or handling of the vessel's equipment.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which Crew Resource Management contributed to the accident. The document does not provide specific details on teamwork, communication, or leadership issues that may have impacted the outcome.
","0.0","18.333","The skipper's non-compliance with the Maritime Rules and the Maritime Transport Operator Certificate (MTOP) requirements, which he had written himself, was a direct violation of safety procedures. ""The skipper's decision to cross the bar in the forecast weather conditions is an indication that either he did not understand the risk he was taking or that the risk had become normalised over time and therefore not considered to be high"" (4.4.4). This lack of adherence to safety procedures was a critical factor in the accident.
","2.887","13.333","The Francie's operation, including the skipper's behavior, indicates a poor organizational safety culture where high-risk decisions were normalized, and safety procedures were not strictly followed. ""The skipper had a propensity for crossing the Kaipara Harbour bar in high-risk conditions, which was known to but not reported by others in the industry and community"" (5.4). This culture likely contributed to the accident by allowing unsafe practices to continue unchallenged.
","2.887","10.0","The skipper's decision to cross the bar without fully understanding or appreciating the risks involved, as well as the lack of viable alternatives for safe harbor, indicates inadequate risk management and analysis. ""This accident highlights the importance of fully understanding the risks involved with crossing harbour bars and the various factors that can make them so unpredictable and subject to rapidly changing sea conditions"" (4.3.10).
","0.0","5.0","The Francie's operation and the skipper's actions reflect issues with regulatory oversight and compliance. The skipper had previously acted as skipper without the required qualification, and Maritime New Zealand had to intervene (4.4.8). The lack of compliance with maritime rules and the failure to enforce regulations contributed to the unsafe conditions leading to the accident.
","0.0","1.667","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which situational awareness contributed to the accident. The document does not provide evidence of a failure to recognize and respond to hazards due to a lack of situational awareness.
","2.887","5.0","The lack of lifejackets being worn by the passengers and the skipper's failure to enforce the wearing of lifejackets when crossing the bar indicate a lack of emergency response preparedness. ""It is virtually certain that everyone on board would have had a better chance of survival if they had been wearing a lifejacket, and virtually certain that more people would have survived had the lifejackets been fitted with crotch straps"" (5.7).
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which maintenance and inspection regimes contributed to the accident. The document does not mention any equipment failures or maintenance issues that could have led to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which the use of automation contributed to the accident. The document does not discuss the role of automated systems in the operation of the Francie.
","0.0","11.667","The skipper's decision to cross the bar despite the forecasted adverse weather conditions contributed to the accident. ""The wave conditions that developed over the Kaipara Harbour bar while the Francie fished in deeper water were entirely predictable given the forecast conditions and the change in the tide"" (4.3.1). The failure to properly consider these conditions in decision-making was a contributing factor.
","2.887","1.667","There is insufficient information in the document to determine the extent to which communication breakdown contributed to the accident. The document does not provide evidence of communication failures among the crew or between the vessel and external parties.
","2.887","0.0","There is no need to add an ""Other"" safety theme as the provided themes and the information in the document sufficiently cover the factors that contributed to the accident.","0.0","true","N/A"
