"2010_005","[15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the incident in the document, so it cannot be determined if fatigue management was a factor.
","0.0","20.0","The incident involved human error and assumptions, particularly when ""both of the aeroplane pilots lost sight of the helicopter before beginning the descent and continued with the procedure without advising each other or ATC"" (4.3). Additionally, the pilots of the aeroplane did not broadcast that they had lost sight of the helicopter, which would have been the correct action (4.32). This indicates a reliance on expected actions without verification and incorrect judgments based on incomplete information.
","0.0","15.0","The incident highlighted issues with training and competency, as the instructor in the aeroplane would not have flown a circuit opposed to that of the preceding traffic if he had been at an uncontrolled aerodrome, suggesting a misunderstanding of how to comply with the clearance for the standard joining procedure (4.11). Furthermore, there were different opinions among experienced flight instructors regarding the correct way to join in circumstances like those of this incident (4.24).
","0.0","0.0","The document does not provide information suggesting that a lack of training or familiarity with equipment contributed to the incident.
","0.0","0.0","There is insufficient information in the document to determine if Crew Resource Management specifically contributed to the incident. The document does not discuss the crew's teamwork, communication, decision-making, or leadership skills in detail.
","0.0","15.0","The pilots did not adhere to safety procedures when they lost sight of the helicopter and failed to communicate this to each other or ATC, which increased the risk of collision (4.30, 4.31). The controller also did not manage the increased risk of collision presented by the aeroplane descending to circuit altitude in the opposite direction (5.1).
","0.0","10.0","The aviation community, including the regulator, Airways, aerodrome operators, and aircraft operators, did not have a consistent approach to reducing the collision risks associated with simultaneous opposed circuits at aerodromes (5.2). This reflects on the organizational safety culture where there was a lack of concerted action to address known safety risks.
","0.0","10.0","The incident showed a lack of effective risk management and analysis, as the controller's instructions did not manage the increased risk of collision (5.1), and there was no consistent approach to reducing the collision risks associated with simultaneous opposed circuits (5.2).
","0.0","10.0","There was ambiguity in the interpretation of Civil Aviation Rule 91.223 in non-standard traffic situations, contributing to the collision risk at aerodromes (5.3). This indicates a need for better regulatory oversight and compliance to ensure clarity in rules that are critical for safety.
","0.0","10.0","The pilots' loss of situational awareness when they lost sight of the helicopter and did not communicate this critical information contributed to the incident (4.30, 4.31). Maintaining situational awareness is essential for avoiding collisions and managing emergencies.
","0.0","0.0","Emergency response preparedness is not discussed as a contributing factor in the document, as the incident did not escalate to an emergency situation requiring such a response.
","0.0","0.0","There is no indication in the document that maintenance or inspection regimes were a factor in the incident.
","0.0","0.0","The document does not mention the use of automation as a contributing factor to the incident.
","0.0","0.0","Weather conditions are not mentioned as a contributing factor in the document, so it cannot be determined if they played a role in the incident.
","0.0","10.0","There was a communication breakdown when the pilots of the aeroplane lost sight of the helicopter and did not inform each other or ATC (4.30, 4.32). Additionally, the controller provided traffic information to the pilots of the aeroplane only, and not to the pilots of the helicopter (5.5).
","0.0","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the document that contributed to the incident outside of the predefined themes.","0.0","true","N/A"
