 
 
  
 
 
Final Preliminary Report  
Tuhinga Whakamutunga – Mō Tēnei 
Wā 
 
 
Maritime inquiry MO-2022-206 
Charter fishing vessel i-Catcher  
Capsize  
Goose Bay , Kaikōura, New Zealand  
10 September  2022 
 
 
 
 
August  2023  
 
 
 
 
  

  
MO-2022-206 Final  Preliminary Report  | Page i The Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
Te Kōmihana Tirotiro Aituā Waka  
No repeat accidents – ever!  
“The principal purpose of the Commission shall be to determine the circumstances and causes 
of accidents and incide nts with a view to avoiding similar occurrences in the future, rather than 
to ascribe blame to any person.”  
Transport Accident Investigation Commission Act 1990 , s4 Purpose  
 
The Transport Accident Investigation Commission is an independent Crown entity and standing 
commission of inquiry. We investigate selected maritime, aviation and rail accidents and 
incidents that occur in New  Zealand or involve New  Zealand -registered aircraft or vessels.  
Our investigations are for the purpose of avoiding similar accidents in the future. We determine 
and analyse contributing factors, explain circumstances and causes, identify safety issues, and 
make recommendations to improve safety. Our findings cannot be used to pursue criminal, civil, 
or regulat ory action.  
At the end of every inquiry, we share all relevant knowledge in a final report. We use our 
information and insight to influence others in the transport sector to improve safety, nationally 
and internationally.  
 
Commissioners  
Chief Commissioner     Jane Meares  
Deputy Chief Commissioner    Stephen Davies Howard  
Commissioner      Paula Rose, QSO  
Commission er     Richard Marchant (until 31  October  2022)  
Commissioner      Bernadette Roka Arapere  (from 1  December  2022)  
Commissioner      David Clarke  (from 1  December  2022)  
Key Commission personnel  
Chief Executive     Martin Sawyers  
Chief Investigator of Accidents   Naveen Kozhuppakalam  
Lead Investigator     Jeremy Dann  
Commission General Counsel    Cathryn Bridge  
 
 
Page ii | MO -2022-206 Final Preliminary Report  Notes about Commission reports  
Kōrero tāpiri ki ngā pūrongo  o te Kōmihana  
Nature of this report  
This preliminary report is made under  section 9 of the Transport Accident Investigation 
Commission Act 1990 . The Commission may make preliminary reports and recommendations 
to transport regulators as may be necessary  for transport safety.  
The Commission is sued  this preliminary report in the initial stages of the investigation . It 
follows  the identification of par ticular facts and circumstances that the Commission believes 
have made it necessary to issue an urgent safety recommendation for transport safety .  
Final report  
Upon the completion of the full investigation , which may include further engagement with the 
preliminary safety issue , the Commission will issue  a final report on the accident . That report 
will contain an analysis of the facts of the accident, findings and possible  further 
recommendations , including on  this preliminary safety  issue  (if any) .  
Photographs, diagrams, pictures  
The Commission owns the photographs, diagrams and pictures in this report unless otherwise 
specified  
Verbal probability expressions  
For clarity, the Commission uses standardised terminology where possible.  
One example of this standardisation is the terminology used to describe the degree of 
probability (or likelihood) that an event h appened, or a condition existed in support of a 
hypothesis. The Commission has adopted this terminology from the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change and Australian Transport Safety Bureau models. The Commission chose 
these models because of their sim plicity, usability, and international use. The Commission 
considers these models reflect its functions. These functions include making findings and 
issuing recommendations based on a wide range of evidence, whether or not that evidence 
would be admissible in a court of law.  
Terminology  Likelihood  Equivalent terms  
Virtually certain  > 99% probability of occurrence  Almost certain  
Very likely  > 90% probability  Highly likely, very probable  
Likely  > 66% probability  Probable  
About as likely as not  33% to 66% probability  More or less likely  
Unlikely  < 33% probability  Improbable  
Very unlikely  < 10% probability  Highly unlikely  
Exceptionally unlikely  < 1% probability   
 
 
.
 
MO-2022-206 Final Preliminary Report |  Page iii  
Figure 1: i-Catcher  
(Credit: Fish Kaik oura 2011  Limited ) 

 
Page iv | MO -2022-206 Final Preliminary Report    
Figure 2: Location of accident    

 
MO-2022-206 Final Preliminary Report |  Page v Contents  
Rārangi take  
 
1 Factual information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  1 
2 Safety issues and remedial action  ................................ ................................ .......................  7 
3 Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  8 
4 Further lines of inquiry  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  9 
5 Data summary  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................... 10 
6 Conduct of the inquiry  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......11 
 
Figures  
Figure 1: i-Catcher  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ... iii 
Figure 2: Location of accident ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  iv 
Figure 3: The i-Catcher’s  fuel- system components  ................................ ................................ ...............  3 
Figure 4: Hole in alloy vent tube  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  3 
Figure 5: Stern of i-Catcher , identifying the alloy frame leg in which the alloy vent tube terminates.
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 4 
Figure 6: Primary vent hose connection to fuel tank (underneath the deck plate)  ............................  5 
  

 

<< Page 1 >>
 MO-2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  1 Factual information  
Pārongo pono  
Narrative  
1.1. The i-Catcher  was an 8 -metre ( m) aluminium pontoon boat built for private use in 200 3. 
It was powered by two 115-horsepower  (hp) Yamaha  outboard engines and equipped 
with an internal fuel tank . The i-Catcher  entered commercial service as a charter  fishing  
vessel  in 2009  and was purchased by the current owner , Fish Kaikoura 2011 L imited , in 
2011.  
1.2. At ap proximately 0800 on Saturday 10 September  2022, the i-Catcher  departed South 
Bay, Kaikōura with 11 people onboard comprising 10 passengers and the skipper .  
1.3. The passengers were members  of the N ature Photography Society of New Zealand . The 
vessel was chartered for a three -hour passage to photograph  sea birds.  
1.4. The i-Catcher  was off the coast of Goose Bay  (see Figure  2) when a t approximately 1005  
the vessel rapidly  capsize d to starboard , after  contact with  what initial inquiries suggest 
was a whale . 
1.5. Two passengers were ejected from the vessel , while eight  passengers and the skipper 
were  initially undern eath the upturned hull. The skipper along with two passengers 
immediately swam out from underneath the vessel . 
1.6. At about the same time , one passenger surfaced within the air pocket inside  the 
upturned hull, a nd attempted to instruct other passengers who were  also in the air 
pocket to swim out. The passenger then sensed that “the air  did not feel good”  and 
swam out from under the vessel . 
1.7. The skippe r and five passengers climb ed onto the upturned hull . At 1011 the skipper 
called 111 using a passenger ’s mobile phone.  
1.8. At approximately 1024 the Maritime Operations Centre for Maritime New Zealand 
started issuing Mayday relays  over VHF radio Channel 16 . 
1.9. By 10 43 a recreational vessel  had responded  to the May day calls and recovered the five 
passengers who were on top  of the upturned hull. The recreational vessel  then took 
them  back to South Bay for medical treatment. The skipper of the i-Catcher remained 
with the upturned vessel , as five passengers were still trapped  beneath the hull.  
1.10. The skipper was later retrieved by Coastguard Kaikōura and brought ashore by another 
responding vessel.  
1.11. Later that same  day the Police National Dive Squad retrieved the five remaining 
passengers , decease d, from within the  vessel.  
Vessel fuel system  
1.12. The Commission  found that flaws  in the vessel’s fuel system  almost certainly  allowed 
fuel to leak into the air pocket of the upturned vessel and very likely  reduced  the 
survivability of the accident  for the following reasons:   
1.12.1.  The survivor who surfaced within the air pocket and swam out  because of the  air 
quality told Commission investigators that after the accident their jacket smelled 
of petrol while their pants di d not . This is consistent with the presence of petrol 
 
MO-2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  
<< Page 2 >>
 on the surface of the water within the cockpit area of the upturned vessel. Petrol 
floats , so anything above the surface of the water would be in contact with 
petrol or petrol vapour, while anything bel ow water level would not . 
1.12.2.  Evidence reviewed by the Commission ’s medical consultant  identified that all 
deceased passengers showed symptoms of petrol exposure , consistent with  
inhalation  and absorption  of petrol fumes.  
1.12.3.  Although they entered the upturned coc kpit sometime  after the accident , the 
Police National D ive Squad  reported very strong fumes within the air pocket  of 
the upturned vessel.  
1.13. The presence of petrol in a confined space reduces survivability , as petrol attacks the 
cardiac and central nervous system s. At low concentration levels people can experience 
the smell  and irritation of the eyes and upper respiratory tract. Higher exposure levels  
can rapidly lead to  confusion , loss of consciousness and sudden  death .  
1.14. The fuel system on i-Catcher  is made up of the following main components1 (see 
Figure  3): 
• 190-litre fixed  centreline  fuel tank  located under  the deck plate  (fuel tank) 
• main fuel fill hose for re-fuelling  the vessel  (fill hose ), which connects  to the fuel filler 
cap2 and fuel tank  
• the fuel-tank vent ing arrangement compris ing three components : a primary vent 
hose ; a secondary vent hose  that branche s off the primary vent hose ; and a n alloy vent 
tube attached to the secondary vent hose, which passe s up through the deck of the 
vessel and terminate s inside a n alloy frame on the transom (discussed below)   
• two fuel-delivery hose s, each  leading  to a fuel filter and one of the two outboard 
engines  (fuel-delivery hose s). 
 
 
 
  
 
1 All main components of the fuel system were examined and tested by the Commission for potential leaks.  
2 A sealed petrol cap located on top  of the transom where fuel is added . 
  

<< Page 3 >>
 MO -2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report   
 
Figure 3: The i-Catcher’s fuel system components  
1.15. The Commission found a hole  measuring approximately  12mm x 6mm  in the alloy vent 
tube attached to the secondary vent hose  (see Figure 4).  Locating the hole required a 
thorough examination of the venting arrangement due to the alloy pipe being partially 
restricted from view.   
 
Figure 4: Hole in alloy vent tube  
Fill hose  
Primary  
vent hose  
Secondary 
vent hose  
Secondary vent 
hose attached  to 
alloy vent tube  
Fuel-delivery 
hose s to 
outboard 
engines  
Fuel hose s run 
inside  this 
enclosure and 
lead to fuel tank 
under cover plate  
(figure 6) 

 
MO-2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  
<< Page 4 >>
 1.16. This hole was a potential path for fuel to escape when f illing the fuel tank or if the vessel 
overturned. The hole was also close to the high -tension battery leads and contact points, 
which presented a significant fire or explosion hazard.  
1.17. The alloy vent tube (see Figure 4) terminate d inside an alloy frame on the transom3 just 
forward of the swim platform  (see Figure 5). A pressure test of the alloy frame  reveal ed 
that it was closed -off from the atmosphere , preventing  fuel vapours from venting  to 
open air  and rendering it ineffective as a fuel -tank vent  (a point not identified in survey 
reports , as discussed below).  
1.18. Fish Kaikoura 201 1 Limited has stated to the Commission that no modifications had been 
made to  the i-Catcher’s  fuel system  since it purchas ed the vessel.  
 
 
 
Figure 5: Stern of i-Catcher , identifying the alloy frame leg in which the alloy vent tube terminates.  
 
1.19. The vessel ’s fuel-delivery hoses ran from the fuel tank through two holes in a cover plate . 
Removal of th e cover p late and the deck plate  to inspect the fuel -tank connections 
required partial dis assembly of the fuel system . Upon disassembly , the Commission  
found  the primary  vent hose  was not secured with a hose clamp, a critical component to 
ensure a secure connection  to the fuel tank  (see Figure 6).  
1.20. A sealant had been applied  where the fuel and vent  hoses  connected to the fuel tank. 
The fuel tank  and its fuel hoses  were pressure -tested by the Commission , which reveal ed 
a leak from the base of the primary vent hose . Prior to testing , it was observed  that a 
 
3 The transverse structural member of the stern . 
Alloy frame leg  that 
the alloy vent tube 
terminated inside  
Transom of vessel  
Starboard o utboard 
engine  
 Swim Platform  
  

<< Page 5 >>
 MO -2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  portion of the sealant had broken away , leaving a section of the primary vent hose 
connection exposed  (see Figure 6). 
 
 
Figure 6: Primary vent hose connection to fuel tank (underneath the deck plate)  
 
Survey  
1.21. The i-Catcher  was registered as a passenger vessel restricted to carry a maximum of  12 
people onboard, operating within specified restricted limits4. Under this classification the 
vessel was required to comply with Maritime New Zealand’s Maritime Rules, including 
Part 40A  Design, Construction & Equipment – Non-SOLAS Passenger S hips. Compliance 
with Part 40A was assured through surveys5 conducted periodically on behalf of 
Maritime New Zealand by Recognised  Surveyors . 6 
1.22. At the time of the accident , Rule 40A. 32(4) provide d requirements that: 
(4) The machinery, fuel tank or tanks, and associated piping systems and fittings 
must be— 
(a) of a design and construction adequate for the service for which they are 
intended; and  
 
4 Inside a line commencing at the mouth of the Waiau River , from there 115° for 6 nautical miles, from there 
northwards along the coast of the South Island at a distance of 6nm to the position 130° 6 nm from Waipapa Point 
from there to the shore at Waipapa Point.  
5 Maritime Rules Part 44 Surveyor Responsibilities and Survey, Certification, and M aintenance for Ships in Maritime 
Transport Operations ( see Appendix) . 
6 A surveyor who holds a certificate of surveyor recognition issued by Maritime New Zealand , which is conditional on 
the Director being satisfied that the person is competent and has app ropriate technical qualifications and 
experience.  
Missing sealant  
Primary  vent 
hose -missing 
hose clamp  
 
MO-2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  
<< Page 6 >>
 (b) so installed and protected as to reduce to a  minimum the danger to persons 
from moving parts, hot surfaces and other hazards during normal movement 
about the ship.  
1.23. Although f urther parts of Rule 40A provide some information regarding adequate 
standards for fuel -system components , what constitutes  ‘adequate ’ is largely  at the 
discretion of the surveyor. This allows surveyors flexibility when surveying various vessel 
designs but  is open to an  inconsistent application of the Maritime Rules with respect to 
quality assurance of safety -critical components  such as fuel systems.  
1.24. The survey system beg ins with an initial survey  before  a vessel enters commercial service . 
A Certificate of Survey  is then issued , which is valid for five years.  Once in commercial 
service , the vessel is subject to periodic surveys i ncluding renewal of the Certificate of 
Survey and intermediate surveys.  
1.25. The i-Catcher  had been in commercial service for 13 years . During that time,  it had been 
surveyed by five different  surveyors  representing multiple safe  ship management 
companies . The vessel ’s initial survey  was conducted in 2009  and periodic surveys  were 
then conducted approximately every 2 years .  
1.26. The s urvey re ports show that no inspection of the fuel system below the deck plate  (see 
Figure 6) had been conducted on the vessel  as a part of its commercial service . Similarly,  
the survey reports hadn’t identified that the secondary fuel tank vent  was ineffective . At 
the time of publication of this preliminary report the Commission had not yet 
determined how long the hole had been in the alloy vent tube . 
1.27. The Maritime Rules did not prescribe that the entire fuel system be inspected . The f uel 
system is safety  critical because a failure in that system can have seri ous consequences 
such as fire, explosion, inhalation of toxic fumes and environmental harm . For this 
reason,  it is important that fuel systems are regularly monitored and periodically tested 
to ensure they are safe and  fit for purpose.  
1.28. Fuel systems on smaller vessel s can be difficult to access  and, like the i-Catcher , may 
require  disassembly  or destructive measures  to gain access . Without specific regulatory 
requirements to survey the  entire  fuel system, surveyors rely upon  their judgeme nt in 
determining the extent of inspection . This decision may be based on  an overall visual 
appraisal  of the vessel that may not accurately reflect the condition of hidden  
components . Currently there is little guidance for surveyors as to how often and to what 
extent a fuel system should be inspected and/or t ested . 
  

<< Page 7 >>
 MO -2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  2 Safety issues and remedial action  
Ngā take haumanu me ngā mahi whakatika  
General  
2.1. Safety issues are an output from the Commission’s analysis. They m ay not always relate 
to factors directly contributing to the accident or incident. They typically describe a 
system problem that has the potential to adversely affect future transport safety.  
2.2. Safety i ssues may be addressed by safety actions taken by a part icipant, otherwise the 
Commission may issue a recommendation to address the issue.  
Safety issue:  Maritime New Zealand ’s survey system  does not adequately assure the 
integrity and safety of fuel systems  because the rules do not require that the entire fuel 
system is inspected . 
2.3. While the i-Catcher  represents one example , vessels of similar size and class make up a 
significant p ortion  of New  Zealand’s commercial fleet.  The ability to inspect  fuel system s 
of such vessels  is often restricted and  may require destructive measures to gain access . 
2.4. The Maritime Rules do not require surve yors to  inspect the  complete fuel system , so the 
extent of survey s is left to the surveyors’  discretion.  
2.5. The abse nce of a requirement to inspect the complete  fuel system  as a critical item 
during survey , increases the potential for undetected high-risk deficiencies  to exist.  
2.6. Being unable to get assurance from surveys as to the condition of fuel systems for other 
vessels in New  Zealand’s domestic fleet , the Commission  is concerned  about the  
potential risk to those vessels  and their occupants.  
2.7. No action has been taken to address this safety issue. Therefore , the Commission has 
made  recommendation s to address this issue  (see Section 3) . 
 
MO-2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  
<< Page 8 >>
 3 Recommendations  
Ngā tūtohutanga  
General  
3.1. The Commission issues recommendations to address safety issues found in its 
investigations. Recommendations may be addressed to organisations or people and  can 
relate to safety issues found within an organisation or within the wider transport system 
that ha ve the potential to contribute to future transport accidents and incidents.  
3.2. For transport safety, it is important that th ese recommendation s are  implemented 
without delay  to help prevent  similar accidents or incidents occurring in the future.  
New recommend ation s 
3.3. On 26 July  2023, the Commission recommended that Maritime New Zealand use an 
appropriate mechanism that ensures the integrity and safety of fuel systems are being 
maintained and monitored through the survey system.  [021/23 ] 
3.4. On 26 July 2023, the Commission r ecommended that Maritime New Zealand alert all 
Recognised Surveyors:  
• to the importance of conducting and documenting inspections of a vessel’s 
complete fuel system during surveys; and  
• to check vessels they are surveying have undergone a recent complete inspection 
of the fuel system . [022/23] 
3.5. On 26 July 2023, the Commission recommended that Maritime New Zealand alert all 
industry stakeholders to the importance of inspecting a vessel’s complete fuel system to 
assure its integrity and safety.  [023/23] 
  

<< Page 9 >>
 MO -2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  4 Further lines of inquiry  
4.1. The Commission is continuing with a  full inquiry  into this accident . A final report , setting 
out findings , safety issues  and further recommendations, if any, will be issued at the  
completion of this inquiry.  
4.2. Lines of inquiry incl ude, but are not limited to : 
• cause of capsize  
• survey  systems  
• life jacket education   
• emergency respon se to maritime accidents .  
 
MO-2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  
<< Page 10 >>
 5 Data summary  
Whakarāpopoto raraunga  
 
Vehicle particulars   
Name:  i-Catcher  
Type:  Aluminium  pontoon c harter fishing vessel  
Class: Passenger , restricted to 12 people onboard  
Limits:  Restricted Inshore  
Length:  8 m 
Manufacture r: Kiwi-Kraft 
Model : 820 Hardtop  
Built:  2003  
Propulsion:  2 x Yamaha  115 hp outboards  
Service speed:  20 knots  
Owner/operator:  Fish Kaikoura 2011  Limited  
Home port : Kaikōura, New  Zealand  
Date and time  10 September  2022, 1005 
Location  Goose Bay , Kaik ōura, New Zealand  
Persons involved  10 passengers and 1 crew  
Injuries  5 fatalities and 3 with moderate  injuries  
Damage  Damage to hull, loss of machinery and electrical  systems  
  

<< Page 11 >>
 MO -2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  6 Conduct of the inquiry  
He tikanga rapunga  
6.1. On 10 September  2022, Maritime New Zealand notified the Commission of the 
occurrence . The Commission subsequently opened an inquiry under section 13(1) of the 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission Act 1990  and appointed an Investigator -in-
Charge.  
6.2. Between 11 and 14 September  2022, three  Commission investigators examined  the 
vessel  in Kaik ōura to gather evidence and  conduct ed interviews . 
6.3. Between 23 and 2 5 November  2022, two investigators redeployed to the Marlborough 
region to conduct interviews and prepare the vessel to be transferred to Wellington for 
examination.  
6.4. On 24  March  2023 , independent testing was conducted on the vessel ’s fuel system . 
6.5. In April  2023 , investigators conducted further interviews . 
6.6. On 28 June 2023 the Commission approved a draft preliminary report for circulation to  
four interested parties for their urgent comment  given the nature of the safety issue 
raised . 
6.7. The Commission received submissions from two interested parties . Any changes as a 
result of these submissions have been included  in the final preliminary report.  
6.8. On 26 July 2023  the Comm ission approved the final preliminary report for publication.  
6.9. The investigation into th is occurrence is continuing.  
 
 
   
MO-2022 -206 Draft Preliminary Report  
<< Page 12 >>
 Appendix : Excerpts from Maritime Rules  relating to 
survey requirements for fuel system s  
Maritime Rules  Part 40A: Design, Construction and Equipment – Passenger Ships which are not SOLAS Ships  
 
Machinery  
40A.32  General  
(1) A ship  with a propulsion  motor of  more  than 5 kW shaft  power must have  sufficient astern  
power  to provide  for manoeuvreability  of the  ship under  all normal operating conditions.  
(2) Main  and auxiliary  machinery  essential  for the propulsion  and safety  of the  ship must be 
provided with effective means of control and such readily visible instrumentation as a surveyor  
considers  is appropriate  for the safe operation  of such  machinery  on that ship.  
(3) A post-27 May 2004  ship fitted  with an inboard  engine  must be  provided  with sufficient fuel 
tankage for its intended service and area of operation.  
(4) The machinery,  fuel tank or tanks,  and associated  piping  systems  and fittings  must  be— 
(a) of a design  and construction  adequate  for the service  for which  they are intended; and 
(b) so installed and protected as  to reduce to a  minimum  the danger to persons  from 
moving  parts,  hot surfaces  and other  hazards  during  normal  movement  about  the ship. 
(5) Machinery spaces must be adequately  ventilated and so designed as to provide safe and  
free access  to all machinery  and machinery  controls, including  any parts  that may require 
servicing at sea and while in operation.  
(6) Two means  of escape  must  be provided  from a machinery  space  of Category  A, except  
 of major  fire hazard  if the space  is an unmanned  machinery  space  not exceeding  5 
metres in length.  
40A.33   Petrol  inboard  and outboard  engines  
 (1) A ship may be fitted  with an inboard  petrol  engine  if— 
  (a) the engine  is located  in an efficiently  enclosed  space  to which  a fixed  fire 
  extinguishing  system  is fitted;  and 
  (b) provision  is made  to ventilate  the engine  space  thoroughly before  the engine  is 
started;18 and 
  (c) electrical devices  within  the engine  and tank compartments  have  protection  against 
ignition of surrounding flammable gases;19 and 
  (d) any flexible  hose  used  between  the engine  and any solidly  mounted  metallic  line to 
eliminate vibration failure is made of fire resistant fuel hose;20 and 
  (e)  not more  than 12 passengers  are carried;  and 
  (f) the ship does  not proceed  beyond  inshore  operating  limits.  
 (2) A ship fitted  with one or more  outboard  petrol engines — 
  (a) must  not proceed  beyond  restricted  coastal  limits;  and 
  (b)  must have  the engines  securely  fastened  to the hull; and 
  (c) if the  engines  are not permanently  secured,  must provide  the engines  with an 
effective safety chain or cable; and  
  (d) must  have  effectively  drained  engine  wells  that are long enough  for the engine  to 
  be tilted  up. 
 (3) Petrol  for outboard  motors  must  be stored — 
 (a) in portable  containers21 that can be readily  jettisoned;  or 
(b)  in a fixed -in-place  inboard  tank,  if— 
(i) the ship is a rigid hulled  ship or rigid/inflatable  boat;  and 
(ii) the tank is constructed  of mild steel,  stainless  steel  or aluminium  alloy and 
located  in a safe place; and 
(iii) the tank is tested  to a pressure  of 0.3 bar, to the satisfaction  of a surveyor;  
 

<< Page 13 >>
 MO -2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  and 
(iv) the opening  of the  vent pipe from the petrol  tank is protected  by a flash  proof  
fitting;  and 
(v)  where  the possibility  of accumulation  of hydrocarbon  vapours  exists  and 
where  a source  of ignition  may be present,  a safe detector  of hydrocarbon  gas 
is fitted  under or  adjacent  to the tank.  
 
(3A) Aluminium  tanks  must  only be used  for “fixed -in-place”  inboard  fuel tanks.  
(1) (a) Except as provided in rule 40A.33(4)(b), any post -27 May 2004 boat fitted with outboard 
motors must undergo a test in accordance with Appendix D of the Australian standard 
AS 1799.1 Small Pleasure Boats Code Part 1: General requirements  for power  boats, to 
confirm  that the boat can manoeuvre  safely  using its maximum power capacity.  
(b) If the  prototype  of any series  production  boat has  completed  the test referred  to in rule  
40A.33(4)(a)  to the satisfaction  of a surveyor,  subsequent  boats  of that series fitted with 
an engine of the same power may be accepted by a surveyor without undertaking that 
test. 
 
40A.34   Fuel tanks  
 (1) All fuel tanks  fitted  on a ship must — 
  (a)  be tested  and installed  to the satisfaction  of a surveyor;  and 
  (b)  have  a means  of safely  ascertaining  the amount  of fuel contained;  and 
  (c)  be provided  with vents  and filling  connections  located  in a safe open  -air position.  
 (2) A ship must be  provided  with a means  of isolating  a source  of fuel  that may feed a fire 
that occurs in a machinery space. In a ship of 24  metres or more in length overall, a 
valve or cock that is capable of being closed from a position outside the machinery 
space must be fitted in the fuel feed pipe as close as possible to the fuel tank.  
 
 
 
18 For guidance  it is recommended  that reference  be made  to ISO 11105: – Small  Craft  – Ventilation  of petrol  engine  and/or petrol 
tank compartments  
19 For guidance  it is recommended  that reference  be made  to ISO 8846:1990 – Small  Craft – Electrical  devices  — Protection 
against ignition of surrounding flammable gases.  
20 For guidance  it is recommended  that reference  be made  to ISO 7840:  – Small  Craft  – Fire resistant  fuel hoses  
21 For guidance  it is recommended  that reference  be made  to ISO 13591 – Small  Craft – Portable  Fuel Systems  for outboard 
motors.  
 
MNZ  Consolidation   
  13 December 2019
 
MO-2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  
<< Page 14 >>
  
Part 44: Surveyor  Responsibilities  and Survey,  Certification,  and Maintenance  for Ships  in Maritime  
Transport  Operations  
 
Subpart  B: Certificate  of Survey  
44.41  Surveyor  issues  Certificate  of Survey  
(1) A surveyor may issue a Certificate of Survey for a period not exceeding 5 years in 
accordance  with subrules  (2), and  (3) subject  to such  conditions,  including  limitations, as  the 
surveyor considers appropriate.  
(2) A surveyor must be satisfied that -- 
 
(a) the following  ship safety  requirements  are met: 
(i) the hull, superstructure,  decks,  and valves  of the ship are sound  and serviceable;  
(ii) the steering  gear and propulsion  system of  the ship,  if applicable,  are sound  and 
serviceable; and  
(iii) the ship and the ship’s equipment are in all respects fit for their intended use and 
operating  limits  and meet all  applicable  maritime  rules  and marine  protection  rules;  
(b) the following  survey  requirements  are met: 
(i) for a new ship, the  survey  requirements  of Appendix 1,  including  compiling  the 
Initial Survey Portfolio;  
(ii) for an existing  ship,  the survey  requirements  of Appendix 2;  or 
(iii) in relation  to a major repair, a  major  modification, or  a change  in the scope  of 
certification, the survey requirements of clause 1.4.1 of Appendix 2; and  
(c) the following  documents  have  been  developed  for each  ship: 
(i) a survey  plan, as  required  by rule 19.43;  
(ii) a maintenance  plan,  as required  by rule 19.45; and 
(iii) a safety  equipment  list and  spare  parts  list, as required  by rule 19.46.  
(3) A Certificate  of Survey  is not a maritime  document.  
44.42  Certificate of Survey  
A surveyor  must  include  the following  information  on a Certificate  of Survey:  
(a) the date of the survey;  
(b) ship registration  number,  if applicable;  
(c) the MSA/MNZ  number  of the ship; 
(d) the name  of the ship; 
(e) the length  of the ship; 
(f) the total power  in kilowatts  of the propulsion  machinery  of the ship; 
(g) the scope  of certification  of the ship; 
(h) the tonnage  of the ship,  if applicable;  
(i) any conditions  imposed  on the ship by the surveyor;  
(j) the date of issue  of the Certificate  of Survey;  
(k) the date of expiry  of the Certificate  of Survey;  and 
(l) the name  and signature  of the surveyor  
 

<< Page 15 >>
 MO -2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report   
44.42  Surveyor provides survey report  
A surveyor must, as soon as practicable following each survey, complete and provide a survey  report,  
including  the details  prescribed  in clause  1.3 of Appendix 2,  to the Director, and, as applicable, to the 
maritime transport operator or ship owner.  
 
 
 
 Appendix  1 
Issue  of Certificate  of Survey  for new ship 
 
The details  of the survey  required  by rule 44.41(2)(b)(i)  are prescribed  in this Appendix.  
1.1 Issue  of Certificate  of Survey  
1.1.1  A surveyor  may issue  a Certificate  of Survey  for a new ship provided  that the surveyor — 
(a) is satisfied  that the Initial  Survey  Portfolio  associated  with the ship contains — 
(i) a complete  record  of the initial  surveys  undertaken,  as referred  to in clause  1.1.2; and 
(ii) a statement  made  under  clause  1.1.3(d)  by a surveyor  in respect of each  initial 
survey; and 
(b) gives  due regard  to any conditions, including  limitations,  included  in any survey  report  
under clause 1.1.3(e), when exercising the surveyor’s discretion to impose conditions 
under  rule 44.41(1).  
1.1.2  Each Initial Survey Portfolio must include the following reports for each ship in the 
maritime transport operation  completed  by a surveyor  or a person  whose  qualifications  or 
certifications  as a surveyor have been recognised by the Director  in accordance with section 
41(2) of the Act  for the purposes of this Part:  
(a) a design report that includes the ship’s design and all the necessary drawings and 
specifications  required to  build a ship under survey  to verify  that the ship  is fit in all 
respects for its intended service and operating limits and satisfies all applicable 
maritime rules and marine protection rules;  
(b) a construction  report  based  on a physical  inspection  of the ship;  and 
(c) an equipment report  approving  and listing  the equipment of the  ship based  on a 
physical inspection of the ship.  
1.1.3  Each report  for the Initial Survey Portfolio  must be in a  form acceptable  to the Director 
and must include — 
(a) the name  and signature  of the person  who completed  the report;  
(b) the MSA/MNZ  number  for the ship,  where  applicable;  
(c) the scope  of certification  for the ship; 
(d) a statement  from the person who completed the report  attesting to  the fact that the ship  
is in all respects fit for its intended service and meets all relevant maritime safety and 
marine protection rules;  
(e) any conditions, including limitations, associated with the use of the sh ip, including 
those imposed  by the person  who completed  the report,  by the ship designer, and  by 
the builder; and 
(f) the date of the report.  
1.1.4  Each  Initial Survey Portfolio  must  include a  copy  of the survey  plan for the ship 
required by rule 19.43.  
   
MO-2022 -206 Final Preliminary Report  
<< Page 16 >>
 1.1.5  A surveyor must supply the Initial Survey Portfolio  for each new ship to the maritime 
transport operator or the  ship owner, as  applicable, and  to the Director as  soon  as is 
practicable  following its completion.  
 
Appendix  2 
Issue  of Certificate  of Survey  for existing  ships  and 
surveys for major repair, major modification, or change to 
scope of certification  
The standards  and details  for surveys  required by  rule 44.41(2)(b)(ii) and (iii)  and survey  reports  in 
accordance with rule 44.43 are prescribed in this Appendix.  
1.1 Surveyor  issues  Certificate  of Survey  for existing  ships  
A surveyor  may only  issue  a Certificate  of Survey  for an existing  ship in accordance  with the survey 
requirements prescribed in this Appendix . 
1.2 Survey  requirements  
1.2.1  A surveyor  must  be satisfied  that— 
(a) the ship continues  to meet  the requirements  prescribed  in rule 44.41(2);  and 
(b) the survey  plan remains  consistent  with the requirements  of rule 19.43.  
1.2.2  Where  deficiencies  have  been  recorded  during  a survey,  the surveyor  must  be satisfied  that— 
(a) the necessary  repairs  or renewals  have  been  effectively  made;  
(b) the material  and workmanship  of such  repairs  or renewals  are satisfactory;  and 
(c) the ship continues  to meet  all applicable  maritime  rules  and marine  protection  rules.  
1.3 Survey  report  requirements  
1.3.1  Each  survey report  required  by rule 44.43  must be  in a form acceptable  to the Director  
and include — 
(a) the name  and signature  of the person  who completed  the survey;  
(b) the MSA/MNZ  number  of the ship; 
(c) a statement  attesting  that the ship and its survey  plan are maintained  at the date of 
survey;  
(d) any deficiencies, operating  limitations, and  dates  by which  remedies  must be  
completed  by the maritime transport operator for the Certificate of Survey to remain 
valid;  
(e) the date of survey;  and 
(f) date of expiry  of the Certificate  of Survey.  
1.4 Major  repair,  major  modification,  or change  to ship’s  scope  of certification  
1.4.1  A surveyor who  undertakes  a survey  of a major  repair,  a major  modification,  or change  to 
the ship’s scope of certification must — 
(a) assess  the degree  and nature  of, and  risk associated  with, the repair,  modification, 
or change of scope; an
 

<< Page 17 >>
 MO-2022 -206 Final  Preliminary Report   
(b) require the application of such provisions set out under rule 44.41(2) as the surveyor 
considers  appropriate  taking  into account  the assessment of risk  made  in paragraph  (a) 
1.4.2  A surveyor  may, subject  to such conditions, including  limitations, as  the surveyor  considers 
appropriate, permit  a ship without a  valid Certificate  of Survey  to relocate  for the purpose  of 
undergoing a major repair or major modification to, or a survey of, the ship.  
 
 
 
Part 19: Maritime  Transport Operator  – Certification  and Responsibilities  
 
19.42  Survey  plan 
(1) A maritime  transport operator  must ensure  that a  survey  plan is developed  and applied,  in a form 
acceptable to the Director, for each ship in a maritime transport operation that describes the 
survey requirements for the ship that are consistent with rule 44.41(2).  
(2) A maritime  transport operator  must ensure  that all  survey plans  for ships  in the maritime 
transport operation are approved by a surveyor.  
(3) A maritime  transport  operator  must — 
(a) amend  the approved  survey  plan if required  to do so by a surveyor  in accordance  with rule 
44.23(d); and  
 
(b) obtain  prior written  approval  from a  surveyor  for any other  amendments  to the approved 
survey plan.  
(4) A maritime  transport operator  must  make  the approved  survey  plan available  for inspection by 
the Director, or a surveyor engaged by the maritime transport operator, if requested.  
 
19.43  Alternative  survey  requirements  
The Director may approve a survey plan for a ship in a maritime transport operation that adopts  
alternative  survey requirements  to those  set out in  rule 19.63  if he or she is satisfied that it is 
appropriate having regard to the ship’s scope of certification.  
19.44  Maintenance  plan 
(1) A maritime transport operator must develop and apply a maintenance plan, in a form acceptable  
to the Director,  for each  ship in a maritime  transport operation  that describes  the policies and 
procedures to maintain the ship, including the ship's hull, decks, and superstructure, and the 
ship’s machinery,  equipment, and critical shipboard systems.  
(2) A maritime  transport  operator  must  sign and date any amendments  to the maintenance  plan.  
(3) A maritime  transport operator  must  make a  maintenance plan available  for inspection  by the 
Director, or a surveyor engaged by the maritime transport operator, if requested.  
 
19.45  Safety  equipment  list and spare  parts  list 
(1) A maritime  transport operator  must ensure  that a  relevant safety  equipment  list and  a spare parts 
list, in a form acceptable to the Director, are developed for each ship in the maritime transport 
operation.  
(2) A maritime  transport operator  must ensure  that, where  practicable, each  ship in the maritime 
transport operation carries its safety equipment list and spare parts list at all times.  
(3) A maritime transport operator must make its safety equipment list and spare parts list for a ship  in 
the maritime  transport operation available  for inspection  by the  Director, or  a surveyor engaged by 
the maritime transport operator, if requested.  
 
 MNZ  Consolidation  
1 October 2020  

   
 Kōwhaiwhai - Māori scroll designs  
TAIC commissioned its four kōwhaiwhai, Māori scroll designs, from artist Sandy Rodgers (Ng āti Raukawa, 
Tūwharetoa, MacDougal).  Sandy began from thinking of the Commission as a vehicle or vessel for seeking 
knowledge to understand transport accident tragedies and how to avoid them. A ‘waka whai mārama’ (i te ara 
haumaru) is ‘a vessel/vehicle in pur suit of understanding’. Waka is a metaphor for the Commission. Mārama 
(from ‘te ao mārama’ – the world of light) is for the separation of Rangitāne (Sky Father) and Papatūānuku 
(Earth Mother) by their son Tāne Māhuta (god of man, forests and everything dwe lling within), which brought 
light and thus awareness to the world. ‘Te ara’ is ‘the path’ and ‘haumaru’ is ‘safe’ or ‘risk free’.  
Corporate: Te Ara Haumaru - the safe and risk free path  
 
The eye motif looks to the future, watching the path for obstructi ons. The encased double koru is the mother 
and child, symbolising protection, safety and guidance. The triple koru represents the three kete of knowledge 
that Tāne Māhuta collected from the highest of the heavens to pass their wisdom to humanity. The conti nual 
wave is the perpetual line of influence. The succession of humps represent s the individual inquiries.  
Sandy acknowledges Tāne Māhuta in the creation of this Kōwhaiwhai.  
Aviation: Ngā hau e wh ā - the four winds  
 
 
 
 
To Sandy, ‘Ngā hau e whā ’ (the four winds ), commonly used in Te Reo Māori to refer to people coming 
together from across Aotearoa, was also redolent of the aviation environment. The design represents the sky, 
cloud, and wind. There is a manu (bird) form representing the aircraft t hat move through Aotearoa’s ‘long 
white cloud’. The letter ‘A’ is present, standing for a  ‘Aviation ’.  
Sandy acknowledges Ranginui (Sky father) and Tāwhirimātea (God of wind) in the creation of this Kōwhaiwhai.  
Maritime: Ara wai - waterways  
 
 
 
 
The secti ons of waves flowing across the design represent the many different ‘ara wai’ (waterways) that ships 
sail across. The ‘V’ shape is a ship’s prow and its wake. The letter ‘M’ is present, standing for ‘ Maritime .  
Sandy acknowledges Tangaroa (God of the sea) in the creation of this Kōwhaiwhai.  
Rail: rerewhenua - flowing across the land  
 
 
 
 
 
The design represents the fluid movement of trains across Aotearoa. ‘Rere’ is to flow or fly. ‘Whenua’ is the 
land. The koru forms represent the earth, land and flora that  trains pass over and through. The letter ‘R’ is 
present, standing for ‘Rail’.  
Sandy acknowledges Papatūānuku (Earth Mother) and Tāne Mahuta (God of man and forests and everything 
that dwells within) in the creation of this Kōwhaiwhai.  

 
  
Recent Maritime  Occurrence reports published by  
the Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
(most recent at top of list)  
MO-2023 -201 Preliminary report: Passenger vessel Kaitaki, Loss of power, Cook Strait, New Zealand, 
28 January 2023  
MO-2021 -205 Container vessel Moana Chief, serious injury to crew member, Port of Auckland, New   
Zealand, 10 December  2021  
MO-2020 -205 General cargo vessel, Kota Bahagia, cargo hold fire, Napier Port, 18  December  2020  
MO-2021 -202 Factory fishing trawler Amaltal Enterprise Engine room fire, 55 nautical miles west of 
Hokitika, 2  July 2021  
MO-2021 -203 Collision between fishing vessel ‘Commission’ and container ship ‘Kota Lembah’, 84 
nautical miles northeast of Tauranga, Bay of Plenty, New  Zealand, 28  July 2021 
MO-2021 -201 Jet boat KJet 8, loss of control, Shotover River, Queenstown, 21  March  2021  
MO-2020 -202 Bulk log carrier Funing, Loss of manoeuvrability while leaving port, Port of Tauranga, 
6 July 2020  
MO-2018 -206 Bulk carrier Alam Seri, loss of control and contact with seabed, Port of Bluff, 
28 November  2018  
MO-2020 -201 Collision between bulk carrier Rose Harmony and fishing vessel Leila Jo, Off Lyttelton, 
12 January  2020  
MO-2019 -204 Capsize of water taxi Henerata, Paterson Inlet, Stewart Islan d/Rakiura, 
12 September  2019  
MO-2019 -203 Bulk log carrier Coresky OL, Crew fatality during cargo -securing operation, Eastland 
Port, Gisborne, 3  April  2019  
MO-2018 -205 Fatality on board the factory trawler San Granit, 14  November  2018  
MO-2019 -202 Fatal j et boat accident, Hollyford River, Southland, 18  March  2019  
MO-2019 -201 Jet boat Discovery 2, contact with Skippers Canyon wall, 23  February  2019  

 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Price $ 12.00 ISSN 2815 -8806  (Print)  
 ISSN 2815 -8814  (Online)  
 
