"2011_104","[9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue or overwork contributing to the accident in the provided document.
","<NA>","10.0","The bus driver erroneously assumed that no trains were running, which contributed to the accident. However, it was not the primary cause as there were other significant factors involved such as the bus design and road profile (""Even though on this occasion the bus driver erroneously assumed that no trains were running, he could have contacted train control if the telephone number had been immediately to hand"" (4.4.3)).
","<NA>","5.0","There is no direct mention of a lack of training or competency contributing to the accident. However, the bus driver's lack of awareness of the emergency number suggests a possible gap in training (""The bus driver could have contacted the train controller if he had been aware of the freephone emergency number"" (4.4.1)).
","<NA>","5.0","The bus driver's lack of familiarity with the emergency procedures, specifically the availability of the train control emergency number, may have contributed to the accident (""The bus driver could have contacted the train controller if he had been aware of the freephone emergency number"" (4.4.1)).
","<NA>","0.0","There is no mention of crew resource management issues contributing to the accident in the provided document.
","<NA>","0.0","There is no mention of a failure to adhere to safety procedures contributing to the accident in the provided document.
","<NA>","0.0","There is no mention of organizational safety culture contributing to the accident in the provided document.
","<NA>","15.0","The potential for a long and low road vehicle to become stuck on the crossing was a known risk that had not been adequately mitigated (""There had not been any recorded accidents at the level crossing in that 10-year period, but the potential was there for a long and low road vehicle to become stuck on the crossing"" (4.2.2)).
","<NA>","20.0","The bus complied with all aspects of the Land Transport Rule: Vehicle Dimensions and Mass, but the rules did not guarantee that it could travel on all roads without becoming stuck. Changes in the Land Transport Rule: Vehicle Dimensions and Mass have been made with little formal consideration for the compatibility of long and low road vehicles with existing rail level crossings (""The bus complied with all aspects of the Land Transport Rule: Vehicle Dimensions and Mass"" (4.2.5), ""Changes in the Land Transport Rule: Vehicle Dimensions and Mass have been made with little formal consideration for the compatibility of long and low road vehicles with existing rail level crossings"" (5.9)).
","<NA>","10.0","The bus driver's incorrect assumption about train schedules indicates a lack of situational awareness, which contributed to the accident (""Even though on this occasion the bus driver erroneously assumed that no trains were running, he could have contacted train control if the telephone number had been immediately to hand"" (4.4.3)).
","<NA>","5.0","The lack of immediate access to the train control emergency number indicates a gap in emergency response preparedness, which could have prevented the collision if the bus driver had known how to contact train control (""The collision could have been prevented if the bus driver had known how to contact train control, and had immediately done so"" (4.4.4), ""The bus driver could have contacted the train controller if he had been aware of the freephone emergency number"" (4.4.1)).
","<NA>","0.0","There is no mention of maintenance or inspection issues contributing to the accident in the provided document.
","<NA>","0.0","There is no mention of automation or its misuse contributing to the accident in the provided document.
","<NA>","0.0","There is no mention of weather conditions affecting the decision-making process or contributing to the accident in the provided document.
","<NA>","30.0","The lack of effective communication about the emergency number and the risk associated with the level crossing profile contributed significantly to the accident. The bus driver was not aware of the emergency number, and there was no signage warning drivers of long vehicles about the insufficient stacking distance (""The bus driver could have contacted the train controller if he had been aware of the freephone emergency number"" (4.4.1), ""Additionally, there is no signage at the level crossing warning drivers of long vehicles that there is only a 10.5 m stacking distance"" (8.3.2)).
","<NA>","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the provided document that contributed to the accident.
","<NA>","true","N/A"
