 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Urgent Recommendation MO -2016 -202: Cruise ship Azamara Quest ,  
contact with Wheki Rock, Tory Channel, 27 January 2016  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Transport Accident Investigation Commission is an independent Crown entity established to 
determine the circumstances and causes of accidents and incidents with a view to avoiding similar 
occurrences in the future.  Accordingly it is inappropriate that reports should be used to assign fault or 
blame or determine liability, since neither the investigation nor the reporting process has been 
undertaken for that purpose.  
 
The Commission may make recommendations to improve  transport safety.  The cost of implementing 
any recommendation must always be balanced against its benefits.  Such analysis is a matter for the 
regulator and the industry.  
 
These reports may be reprinted in whole or in part without charge, providing ackno wledgement is made 
to the Transport Accident Investigation Commission.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Urgent Recommendation  
Marine inquiry MO-2016-202 
Cruise  ship Azamara Quest , contact with Wheki Rock ,  
Tory Channel   
27 January 2016  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved for publication : July 2016  

Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
 
About the Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
The Transport Accident Investigation Commission (Commission) is a standing commission of inquiry and 
an independent Crown entity responsible for inquiring into maritime, aviation and rail accidents and 
incidents for New Zealand, and  co-ordinating and co -operating with other accident investigation 
organisations overseas .  The principal purpose of its inquiries is to determine the circumstances and 
causes of o ccurrence s with a view to avoiding similar occurrences in the future.  Its purpose is not to 
ascribe blame to any person or agency  or to pursue (or to assist an agency to pursue) criminal, civil or 
regulatory action against a person or agency.  The Commiss ion carries out its purpose by informing 
members of the transport sector and the public, both domestically and internationally, of the lessons 
that can be learnt from transport accidents and incidents.   
 
Commissioners  
Chief Commissioner     Helen Cull , QC (until 8 July 2016)  
Deputy  Chief Commissioner    Peter McKenzie, QC   
Commissioner      Jane Meares  
Commissioner      Stephen Davies Howard  
     
Key Commission personnel  
Chief Executive      Lois Hutchinson  
Chief Investigator of Accidents    Captain Tim Burfoot  
Investigator in Charge     Naveen Mathew Kozhuppakalam  
General Counsel     Cathryn Bridge  
 
 
Email   inquiries@taic.org.nz  
Web  www.taic.org.nz    
Telephone  + 64 4 473 3112 (24 hrs) or 0800 188 926  
Fax  + 64 4 499 1510  
Address   Level 16, 80 The Terrace, PO Box 10 323, Wellington 6143, New Zealand  
 
  
 
 
 Important n otes 
Nature of this report  
These urgent recommendations are an example of a preliminary report referred to in section 9 of the 
Transport Accident Investigation Commission Act 1990.  This is not a draft report prepared for comment 
but a completed report  that the Commission believes is necessary or appropriate in the interests of 
transport safety.  
This preliminary report presents some facts and circumstances to give context to the urgent 
recommendation.  The report contains no analysis or findings.  Any extrap olation of the information 
given in this report would be speculation.  
Final report may include different information  
The Commission intends completing a final report on the accident after it completes its inquiry.  That 
report will contain an analysis of t he facts of the accident, findings and any further recommendations.  
The information contained in the Commission’s final report may differ from the information contained in 
this preliminary report.  
Citations and referencing  
Information derived from intervi ews during the Commission’s inquiry into the occurrence is not cited in 
this report.  Documents that would normally be accessible to industry participants only and not 
discoverable under the Official Information Act 1980 have been referenced as footnotes o nly.  Other 
documents referred to during the Commission’s inquiry that are publicly available are cited.  
Photographs, diagrams, pictures  
Unless otherwise specified, photographs, diagrams and pictures included in this report are provided by, 
and owned by, t he Commission.  
Verbal probability expressions  
The expressions listed in the following table are used in this report to describe the degree of probability 
(or likelihood) that an event happened or a condition existed in support of a hypothesis.  
Terminology  
(Adopted from the 
Intergov ernmental Panel on Climate 
Change)  Likelihood of the 
occurrence/outcome  Equivalent terms  
Virtually certain  > 99% probability of occurrence  Almost certain  
Very likely  > 90% probability  Highly likely, very probable  
Likely  > 66% probability  Probable  
About as likely as not  33% to 66% probability  More or less likely  
Unlikely  < 33% probability  Improbable  
Very unlikely  < 10% probability  Highly unlikely  
Exceptionally unlikely  < 1% probability   
 
The Azamara Quest  
(photo courtesy of www.cruisepassenger.com .au)

 
 
 Contents  
 
Figure   ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  i 
Data summary  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...................  ii 
1. Background information  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........................  1 
2. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 3 
2.1. General  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  3 
2.2. Recommendation one  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  3 
2.3. Notice given to Director of Maritime New Zealand ................................ ................................ ..... 4 
2.4. Recommendation two  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  5 
2.5. Notice given to Chief Executive of Port Marlborough New Zealand  ................................ ..........  5 
 

 
 
Urgent Recommendation MO -2016 -202 | Page i Figure  
Figure 1  Ship’s position recorded from GPS data stored in the ship’s voyage data recorder  ...........  1 
 
  
Page ii | Urgent Recommendation MO -2016 -202 Data summary  
Vessel particulars  
Nam e: Azamara Quest  
Type : passenger ship 
Limits:  unlimited  
Classification:  Bureau Veritas  
Length:  180.452 metres  
Breadth:  28.3 metres  
Draught :  5.8 metres  
Gross tonnage:  30,277 gross registered tonnes  
Built:  1999  
Propulsion:  four Wartsila 12V32E  diesel generators  
Service speed:  18 knots  
Owner/operator:  Azamara Quest Inc.  
Port of registry:  Valletta  
Minimum crew:  21 
Date and time  
 27 January 2016 , 0915  
Location  
 Tory Channel , eastern e ntrance  
Persons on board  
 passenger s: 652 
crew:  394 
other:   one (harbour pilot)  
Injuries  
 nil  
Damage  
 impact damage to bilge keel and propeller  
 
 
 1. Background information  
1.1. At about 0845 on 27 J anuary 2016 , the 180-metre -long cruise  ship Azamara  Quest  arrived off 
the eastern entrance of Tory Channel  on the final leg of its maiden voyage to Picton Harbour .  
There  were 652 passengers and 394 crew  on board . 
1.2. The port information guide describes Tory Channel as subject to “strong tidal currents ” up to 7 
knots , which can make navigation difficult.  Pilotage was compulsory for vessels of 350 gross 
registered tonnes or more.  
1.3. At about 0900 a  Port Marlborough Marine Services pilot  embarked  about 3.5 nautical mil es 
from the entrance  to the channel .  Once the pilot was on the bridge t he m aster gave the pilot a 
standard briefing regarding the vessel ’s characteristics  and conf irmed t hat the Azamara Quest  
had no deficiencies.  The pilot and the master then discussed  and agreed the passage plan , 
noting a strong flood tide .  
1.4. At about 0912 conduct  of the ship was handed over to the pilot . 
 
Figure 1 
Ship’s position recorded from GPS data stored in the ship’s voyage data recorder  
1.5. The ship was lined up with the leading navigation lights1 and entered Tory Channel without 
incident . For reasons still under investigation, the re was a delay in beginning the  planned  turn 
to port .  As a result  the ship’s ground track2 deviated to starboard of its planned track  (the turn 
was much wider than planned) .  
                                                        
1 Two light beacons, one above and behind the other, that when in line indicate the ship is on the preferred 
track.  
2 The ship’s track over the seabed as opposed to its track through the water.  
Wheki Rock  
Tory Channel entrance  speed over the 
ground of the ship  Part of c hart NZ 6154 ‘Tory 
Channel Entrance’  
Sourced from Land Information 
New Zealand data . 
Crown Copyright Reserved  
Not To Be Used For Navigation  
 1.6. The bridge team  realised  that the ship was going to come dangerously close to Wheki R ock on 
the starboard side  of the c hannel (refer Figure 1)  and corrective  action was taken.  However, 
the action was too late to prevent the ship’s  starboard quarter3 contacting  Wheki R ock. 
1.7. The ship was then steadied up on a safe track a nd continued on its passage to P icton without 
further incident.   When the ship was berthed in Picton, divers  conducted a survey and noted 
damage to the starboard bilge keel and propeller.  
  
                                                        
3 The area around the stern on the starboard side.  
 
 
 2. Recommendations  
2.1. General  
2.1.1.  The Transport Accident Investigation Commissi on (Commission) may issue, or give notice of , 
recommendations to any person or organisation that it considers the most appropriate to 
address the identified safety issues, depending on whether these safety issues are applicable 
to a single operator only or to the wider transport sector.   In this case , recommendations have 
been issued to the Chief E xecutive of the Marlborough District Council  and the Director of 
Maritime New Zealand , with notice of  recommendation 1 to the Director of Maritime New 
Zealand and recommendation 2 to the Chief Executive of P ort Marlborough New Zealand 
Limited  for their information.  
2.1.2.  In the interests of transport safety,  it is important that these recommendations are 
implemented without delay  to help prevent  similar accidents or incidents occurring in the future.  
2.2. Recommendation  one 
Safety issue: The current harbour risk assessment for the safe navigation of ships through Tory 
Channel d oes not adequately consider the risks associated with international cruise ship s 
transiting Tory Channel.  
2.2.1.  The Commission reviewed the Marlborough District Council’s harbour risk assessment that 
forms part of the Harbour Safety Management System . 
2.2.2.  The current harbour risk assessment relies heavily on the standard operating procedures 
followed by the Cook Strait ferry operators as a means of mitigating the risk of collisions and 
groundings for passenger ferries.  However, there are additional risks associated with cruis e 
ships  operating in pilotage waters that should be considered separately from ferry operations.  
For example, Cook Strait ferries transit Tory Channel daily , with pilot -exempt masters and crew 
who are very familiar with their ships and the local environme nt.  However,  master s and cr ew on 
cruise ships  are less familiar with Tory Channel , and are required to integrate with harbour 
pilots who are less familiar with the navigation equipment and handling characteristics of the 
ships. 
2.2.3.  On 2 August 2016 the Commission recommend ed that before allowing cruise ships to use Tory 
Channel  in future, the Chief Executive of  the Marlborough District Council review its harbour risk 
assessment  for the safe navigation  of ships through Tory Channel , and in doing so consider the 
safe navigation of cruise ships  through Tory Channel as a separate risk.  The new risk 
assessment should consider , but not be limited to,  the following factors : 
 the limited number of piloted ships using Tory Channel make it difficult for 
harbour pilots to maintain currency  
 cruise ship crews will not be familiar with Tory Channel  
 harbour p ilots will not necessarily be familiar with the manoeuvring 
characteristics and the navigation equipment of ships they are  piloting  
 there is only a  short time available before transiting Tory Channel for a pilot and 
a ship’s crew to form a cohesive bridge team  
 as well as the Tory Channel entrance itself, the remainder of Tory Channel is 
narrow , with significant Cook Strait pa ssenger -ferry traffic.  In order to help 
mitigate the risk of collision s between ships under pilotage and passenger 
ferries, pilots ’ passage plan s would need to be aligned with those of the 
passenger ferries.  (016/16)  
  
 On 9 August 2016, Marlborough Distri ct Council replied:  
The Council notes the content of the finalised recommendation but wishes to 
ensure that the terminology used is fully understood by all parties. In this context, 
the Council wishes to clarify its understanding of the difference between 
risk/hazard and control of these to ensure that the Commission has the same 
understanding.  
It is the Council's belief that the risks/hazards associated with transits through 
Tory Channel Entrance as well as the passage through the Channel are already 
clear ly identified and, although not ship specific, the outcome of  the risk/hazard 
realisation will result in a range of consequences irrespective of  the ship  type.  It 
is the level of the consequences that drive the associated risk control measures.   
The Counc il agrees that the generic controls already identified do not specifically 
address cruise ships transiting this area and that this is a shortcoming of the 
existing risk assessment that will be addressed but the risks/hazards are already 
documented.  
The Com mission will also be aware that a number of cruise ship specific draft 
control measures were identified immediately post the Azamara Quest  incident 
and these were forwarded to the Commission’s investigation team.  
The Commission will have noted that each of these control measure has an 
associated implementation date  and the Council wishes to be satisfied that 
these dates and control measures are realistic achievable and the costs not at a 
level that is disproportionate to anticipated traffic volumes . The k ey to 
resumption of any cruise ship transit through Tory Channel is the implementation 
of the identified control measures and until these are in place , transits are 
permitted through Harbour Master  Direction.  
On 18 August 2016, Marlborough District Council  further replied:  
Further to the Commission's recommendations, a number of control measures 
specific to cruise ships transiting Tory Channel have now finalised and a copy is 
attached for your information.  
The Commission will note that each control measure  has an associated 
implementation timeframe and unless these are achieved for the 'critical' and 
'significant' controls, cruise ship transits of Tory Channel may not be able to 
resume.  
I trust that these measures adequately address the Commission’s safety 
recommendations.  
2.3. Notice given to Director of Maritime New Zealand  
2.3.1.  On 2 August 2016 the Commission gave notice to the Director of Maritime New Zealand that:  
The Commission has recommended  that before allowing cruise ships to use Tory Channel in 
future, the Chief Executive of the Marlborough District Council review its harbour risk 
assessment for the safe navigation of ships through Tory Channel, and in doing so consider the 
safe navigation  of cruise ships through Tory Channel as a separate risk.  The new risk 
assessment should consider, but not be limited to, the following:  
 the limited number of piloted ships using Tory Channel make it difficult for 
harbour pilots to maintain currency  
 cruise ship crews will not be familiar with Tory Channel  
 harbour pilots will not necessarily be familiar with the manoeuvring 
characteristics and the navigation equipment of ships they are piloting  
 there is only a short time available before transiting Tory Channel for a pilot and 
a ship’s crew to form a cohesive bridge team  
 as well as the Tory Channel entrance itself, the remainder of Tory Channel is narrow, with 
significant Cook Strait passenger -ferry traffic.  In order to help mitigate the risk of collisio ns 
between ships under pilotage and passenger ferries, pilots’ passage plans would need to be 
aligned with those of the passenger ferries. ( 016/16)  
 
 
 2.4. Recommendation  two 
Safety issue : In the Commission’s view Port Marlborough ’s4 Pilot Training and Proficiency  Plan 
did not meet the intent of Maritime R ules Part 90 : Pilotage.  
2.4.1.  Maritime Rules Part 90: Pilotage required  the Azamara Quest  to carry a licen sed Grade A 
(unrestricted) pilot to transit Tory Channel.  
2.4.2.  The Director of Maritime New Zealand specifies the minimum number of transits a pilot must 
make within a defined period of time in order to remain current for a pilotage area.  For Port 
Marlborough  this was deemed to be 10 transits (five inwards and five outwards) of Tory Channel 
in any 12-month  period in order to remain current.  At least two inward and two outward of 
those transits were required to be made during the hours of darkness . These requirements 
were reflected in the Pilot Training and Proficiency Plan and ap proved by Maritime New 
Zealand .   
2.4.3.  For the purpose of maintaining pilot currency under the Pilot Training and Proficiency Plan, Port 
Marl borough considered inward and outward transits of Tory C hannel made in pilot boat s5 as 
qualifying transits.   These transits were made by pilot s on the way to and from ships that they 
had piloted or were about to pilot.  The plan also allowed two transits undertaken in a ship 
simulator to count towards currency .   
2.4.4.  In the previous 12 months the pilot had conducted two inward  transits and one outward  transit 
piloting  commercial ships .  He had conducted four transits in a ship simulator, of which only two 
could be counted for the  purpose of maintaining currency . This meant that he was relying on 
five transits in the pilot v essel to maintain the required currency according to the Pilot Training 
and Proficiency Plan.   
2.4.5.  The Pilot Training and Proficiency Plan is ambiguous in its wording on whether transit s made on 
a pilot boat can be counted as inward or outward pilotage.  Notwithstanding any ambiguity, the 
Commission is questioning the appropriateness , for the purpose of maintaining Grade A pilot 
currency,  of likening a pilot being driven out to a ship in a small pilot launch with the difficulty 
and responsibility involved in piloting a large cruise ship through Tory Channel.  
2.4.6.  On 2 August 2016 the Commission  recommend ed that the Director of Maritime New Zealand 
review  Port M arlborough  New Zealand L imited’s Port Safety Mana gement S ystem and ensure 
that it  has appropriate procedures in place to meet the requirements of its Pilot Training and 
Proficiency Plan and that the plan meets the intent of Maritime Rules Part 90: Pilotage .  
(017/16)  
2.4.7.  On 18 August 2016, Maritime New Zealand  replied:  
The Director of Maritime NZ accepts the recommendation. Maritime NZ is 
working with Marlborough District Council to ensure clarity in relation to pilot 
currency . Maritime NZ does not believe that situations of this type currently exist 
in other pilotage ar eas around  New Zealand but it will ensure that the TAIC 
recommenda tions are circulated to other regional councils.  
2.5. Notice given to Chief Executive of Port Marlborough  New Zealand  
2.5.1.  On 2 August 2016 the Commission  recommended  that the Director of Maritime New Zealand 
review Port Marlborough New Zealand’s Port Safety Management Plan and ensure that it has 
appropriate procedures in place to meet the requirements of its Pilot Training and Proficiency 
Plan and that the plan meets t he intent of Maritime Rules Part 90: Pilotage .  (017/16)  
 
 
                                                        
4 Port Marlborough New Zealand Limited . 
5 The pilot boat was a small launch 14.6 metres in length.  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
Recent Marine Occurrence Reports published by  
the Transport Accident Investigation Commission  
 
MO-2011 -202 Roll-on-roll-off passenger ferry Monte Stello , contact with rock, Tory Channel, 
Marlborough Sounds, 4 May 2011  
MO-2014 -201 Dream Weaver , flooding due to structural failure of the hull, Hauraki Gulf, 23 
February 2014  
MO-2010 -206 Coastal container ship Spirit of Resolution , grounding on Manukau Bar, Au ckland,  
18 September 2010  
MO-2014 -202 Lifting sling failure on freefall lifeboat, general cargo ship Da Dan Xia , Wellington,  
14 April 2014  
11-204 Container ship MV Rena  grounding, on Astrolabe Reef, 5 October 2011  
13-201 Accommodation fire on board the log -carrier, Taokas Wisdom , Nelson, 11 July 2013  
13-202 Bulk carrier, IDAS Bulker , pilotage incident Napier, Hawke’s Bay, 8 August 2013  
12-202 Fishing vessel Torea , collision with uncharted rock, Foveaux Strait, 24 August 2012  
09-210 Bulk carrier, Taharoa Express , cargo shift, Port Taharoa, 16 December 2009  
10-204 Inquiry 10 -204:  Bulk carrier Hanjin Bombay , grounding, Mount Maunganui, 21 June 
2010  
 
10-202 M.V. Anatoki , grounding, off Rangihaeata  Head, Golden Bay, South Island, 6 May 
2010  
11-204 Interim Report Marine inquiry 11 -204 Containership MV Rena  grounding  
on Astrolabe Reef 5 October 2011  
09-202 Marine Inquiry 09 -202: Passenger vessel Oceanic Discoverer  Fatal injury,  
Port of Napier 19 February 2009  
11-201 Passenger vessel Volendam , lifeboat fatality,Port of Lyttelton, New Zealand,  
8 January 2011  
10-203 Marsol Pride , uncontrolled release of fire -extinguishing gas into engine room,  
Tui oil and gas field, 27 May 2010  
09-204 
and  09-207 Coastguard rescue vessel Dive! Tutukaka Rescue  collision with rocks,  
Taiharuru River entrance Northland, 4 March 2009; Coastguard rescue vessel Trusts 
Rescue, heav y weather encounter,Manukau Bar, 31 May 2009  
 
10-201 Bulk carrier TPC Wellington , double fatality resulting from enclosed space entry,  
Port Marsden, Northland, 3 May  2010  
09-201 Collision: private jet -boat/private watercraft, Kawarau River, Queenstown, 5 January 
2009  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Price $ 10.00         ISSN 1173 -5597 (Print)  
             ISSN 1179 -9072 (Online)  
 
