"2014_102","[6  7  8  9  10  11]","15.0","The report indicates that the accident occurred during early morning when human performance is typically at its lowest and when the driver was nearing the end of a nine-hour shift, suggesting that fatigue may have played a role in the accident (4.1.11, 4.1.15, 5.3). However, the driver reported feeling fresh at the start of the shift and had adequate breaks, making it less likely that fatigue was the primary factor (4.1.9, 4.1.10).
","<NA>","30.0","The train driver did not slow his train to negotiate the Westfield crossover because he assumed that his train would be taking the usual route through the next crossover instead and did not therefore pay attention to the trackside signals that were warning him to slow his train (4.1.15, 5.2). This assumption and the resulting lack of attention to signals were major contributors to the accident.
","<NA>","5.0","The train driver's training record was unremarkable, and he was familiar with the various main lines around the Auckland rail network (4.1.6). There is no indication in the report that inadequate training or competency was a direct factor in the accident.
","<NA>","0.0","There is no evidence in the report to suggest that a lack of training or familiarity with equipment contributed to the accident. The train's braking system was compliant, and the driver reported no issues with the performance of his train (4.1.3).
","<NA>","10.0","KiwiRail's current policy and procedures regarding information that train controllers should give to train drivers about paths and other factors that are likely to affect the trains' progress is unclear and not consistent with protocols for good communication and crew resource management (5.6). This lack of clarity and inconsistency may have contributed to the accident by not providing the driver with additional information that could have prevented his assumption about the route.
","<NA>","0.0","The report does not provide evidence that a failure to adhere to safety procedures was a contributing factor to the accident.
","<NA>","10.0","The unclear policy and inconsistent procedures regarding communication between train controllers and drivers may reflect aspects of the organizational safety culture that could contribute to accidents (5.6). However, the report does not directly attribute the accident to the broader safety culture.
","<NA>","0.0","There is no specific mention in the report of a failure in risk management and analysis contributing to the accident.
","<NA>","0.0","The report does not indicate that a lack of regulatory oversight and compliance was a factor in the accident.
","<NA>","20.0","The train driver's assumption about the usual route and his failure to comprehend the significance of the signals indicate a loss of situational awareness, which is a significant contributing factor to the accident (4.1.15, 5.2).
","<NA>","0.0","The report does not discuss emergency response preparedness as a factor in the accident.
","<NA>","0.0","The train's braking system was compliant with KiwiRail's mechanical code conditions at the time of the accident, and there were no issues with the performance of the train reported by the driver (4.1.3). Therefore, maintenance and inspection regimes do not appear to have contributed to the accident.
","<NA>","10.0","The report mentions that the train protection system being installed at the time of the accident would have provided a defense against similar accidents, suggesting that the lack of such automation was a contributing factor (5.4, 5.5). However, since the system was not yet operational, it cannot be considered a direct cause.
","<NA>","0.0","Weather conditions are not mentioned as a factor in the accident within the report.
","<NA>","0.0","The lack of communication from the train controller to the driver about the route set for the train could be considered a communication breakdown, contributing to the driver's incorrect assumption about the route (4.3.1-4.3.9). However, since KiwiRail's policy did not require such communication, it is not the primary cause but still a contributing factor.
","<NA>","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the report that contributed to the accident.","<NA>","true","N/A"
