"2014_006","[15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33]","0.0","There is no mention of fatigue management as a contributing factor in the accident.
","0.0","7.5","An abrupt, inappropriate, or inadvertent cyclic control input by the pilot could not be ruled out as having contributed to the in-flight break-up (5.3). This suggests that human error and the pilot's assumptions or reactions during the emergency could have been contributing factors.
","3.536","10.0","The pilot had completed the necessary safety awareness training for Robinson helicopters and was aware of the manufacturer's approved recovery technique as well as an alternative technique of lowering the collective during a low-G encounter. However, the report indicates that ""there is no way of knowing whether he used either technique during the event"" (4.7.1). This suggests that while the pilot had training, the effectiveness of the training in this specific emergency situation is uncertain, and it is not clear if the pilot's competency in handling the situation was a contributing factor.
","0.0","10.0","The pilot was relatively inexperienced on helicopters but had flown Robinson helicopters exclusively and had completed safety awareness training for the R22 (4.4.7). The pilot's familiarity with the specific equipment and his ability to respond to the emergency situation may have been factors, as the report indicates that the pilot's response to the situation is unknown.
","0.0","0.0","Crew Resource Management does not appear to be a relevant factor in this accident, as it involved a single pilot and there is no mention of crew coordination issues.
","0.0","10.0","The pilot had flown the helicopter within the limitations in place at the time of the accident and had slowed the helicopter down as recommended by the manufacturer during an encounter with moderate or severe turbulence (4.7.1). This suggests that adherence to safety procedures was present, but the procedures may not have been sufficient to prevent the accident in the severe conditions encountered.
","0.0","0.0","There is no specific mention in the document of the organizational safety culture being a contributing factor to the accident.
","0.0","2.5","The document does not provide information that suggests risk management and analysis, or lack thereof, directly contributed to the accident.
","3.536","0.0","The document does not indicate that regulatory oversight and compliance were factors in the accident.
","0.0","20.0","The pilot likely encountered a severe downdraught, possibly while in a nose-low attitude due to an intentional descent by the pilot. The combination of factors leading to a sudden onset of low-G and a rapid roll to the right was likely too fast for the pilot to recover from, resulting in mast-bumping and the in-flight break-up (4.7.2). This indicates a loss of situational awareness or an inability to maintain it in rapidly changing conditions, which significantly contributed to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","Emergency response preparedness is not discussed as a contributing factor in the accident report.
","0.0","0.0","There is no indication in the document that maintenance and inspection regimes were a contributing factor to the accident.
","0.0","0.0","The use of automation is not mentioned as a contributing factor in the accident.
","0.0","30.0","The actual wind and turbulence at the time and location of the accident were very likely to have been the same as, or stronger than, the forecast conditions (5.4). The helicopter very likely encountered moderate to severe turbulence and an associated severe downdraught in the lee of Mt Arthur, which likely created a prolonged low-G condition (5.5). The weather conditions played a significant role in the accident by creating the environmental factors that led to the low-G condition and subsequent in-flight break-up.
","0.0","0.0","There is no mention of communication breakdown as a contributing factor in the accident.
","0.0","10.0","The unique main rotor design of Robinson helicopters contributed to the rapid right roll and likely break-up before a pilot could recover during a sudden and prolonged low-G condition (5.8). This design aspect, while not explicitly listed as a safety theme, was a significant factor in the accident's occurrence.","0.0","true","N/A"
