"2020_104","[3  4]","0.0","Fatigue management was not a contributing factor, as fatigue was ruled out during the incident analysis (3.6).
","0.0","30.0","The incident was significantly influenced by human error and assumptions, particularly the misunderstanding between the rail protection officer (RPO) and the train controller regarding the limits of the Protected Work Area (PWA). ""The RPO and the train controller did not share a common understanding of the limits of the PWA"" (3.5), and ""the RPO and the train controller did not listen to each other sufficiently to prevent them having a different understanding of the limits of the PWA"" (3.19, 3.21). This miscommunication was a direct contributor to the near-miss incident.
","0.0","10.0","Training and competency played a role, as the RPO's unfamiliarity with the local area likely contributed to the misunderstanding of the PWA limits (3.22). ""The RPO's lack of familiarity with the area was a limitation"" (3.36), indicating that a higher level of competency in local area knowledge could have prevented the error.
","0.0","0.0","Training and familiarity with equipment were not contributing factors, as there was no indication that the HRV operator or the RPO lacked knowledge or proficiency in operating the equipment involved.
","0.0","5.0","Crew Resource Management (CRM) was a factor, as the incident highlighted the importance of using effective communication strategies and teamwork to guard against errors. ""This incident highlights the importance of using effective communication strategies to guard against such occurrences"" (3.30). Better CRM could have helped establish a common mental model of the blocking protection being requested.
","0.0","15.0","The adherence to safety procedures was not fully maintained, as the RPO had partially completed the Mis 71 form before commencing the blocking procedure with Train Control, contrary to the instructions that only the addressee, location, and date could be pre-completed (3.27, 3.28). This pre-completion likely contributed to the misunderstanding of the PWA limits.
","0.0","5.0","Organizational safety culture was involved, as the incident may reflect on the broader practices and communication standards within the organization. ""A strong safety culture is essential for preventing accidents, as it shapes the collective commitment to safety and the effectiveness of safety management systems"" (3.7). The miscommunication suggests a potential area for improvement in safety culture.
","0.0","5.0","Risk management and analysis were relevant, as the incident could have been mitigated by better identifying and managing the risks associated with miscommunication. ""Effective risk management ensures that safety measures are in place to reduce the likelihood and severity of incidents"" (3.38). In this case, the risk of miscommunication was not adequately managed.
","0.0","5.0","Regulatory oversight and compliance were implicated, as the incident involved a deviation from established safety procedures, which are underpinned by regulatory requirements. ""Compliance with regulations is fundamental to preventing accidents and ensuring the safety of operations"" (3.8). The pre-completion of the Mis 71 form was not in compliance with the Semi-Permanent Bulletin No. 124 (3.27).
","0.0","0.0","Situational awareness did not directly contribute to the incident, as there was no evidence of a loss of awareness of the current environment or inability to project future status.
","0.0","0.0","Emergency response preparedness did not contribute to the incident, as the situation did not escalate to an emergency that required a response.
","0.0","0.0","Maintenance and inspection regimes were not factors in the incident, as there was no evidence of equipment failure or maintenance issues contributing to the event.
","0.0","0.0","The use of automation was not a contributing factor, as the incident did not involve automated systems or technology failures.
","0.0","0.0","Weather conditions and decision making were not factors, as the weather on the day of the incident was fine with clear visibility (2.22).
","0.0","25.0","Communication breakdown was a critical factor, as evidenced by the failure to effectively exchange information between the RPO and the train controller. ""The RPO and the train controller had a different understanding of where the blocking was required"" (4.4), and ""the use of poor non-technical skills between the rail protection officer and Train Control resulted in procedural errors being made that went undetected"" (4.7). The miscommunication could have led to a collision had the hi-rail vehicle not cleared the track in time.
","0.0","0.0","There were no other safety themes identified that contributed to the incident outside of those already mentioned.
","0.0","true","N/A"
