"2018_204","[9  10  11]","0.0","There is no specific mention of fatigue management as a contributing factor to the grounding in the provided document.
","0.0","40.0","The skipper of the Dolphin Seeker became distracted by the tasks of following the pod of dolphins and giving passenger commentary, which led to a loss of situational awareness and the subsequent grounding on rocks. ""It is very likely that the skipper became distracted by the simultaneous tasks of following the pod of dolphins and giving the passenger commentary over the public address system, to the detriment of monitoring the progress of the vessel in relation to navigation dangers"" (4.1.2). This distraction and loss of situational awareness are indicative of human error and assumptions about the vessel's safety while performing routine tasks (4.2.3, 4.2.4).
","0.0","0.0","The skipper had ample experience and was familiar with the format of the trips, indicating that training and competency were not direct contributing factors to the grounding. ""The skipper had ample experience driving the Dolphin Seeker and was familiar with the format of the trips and the general routes that were covered"" (4.2.1).
","0.0","15.0","Although the skipper was competent in using the electronic navigation aids, they were not used to full effect. ""The skipper was competent in using the electronic navigation aids on the Dolphin Seeker, and they were switched on and available for immediate use. However, the skipper did not routinely use them to full effect"" (4.3.4). This indicates a lack of familiarity with the routine use of equipment that could have prevented the accident (4.3.6-4.3.8).
","0.0","8.333","The skipper was effectively working alone in the wheelhouse, which is a high-risk situation with little or no defenses in place to prevent one-person errors that resulted in the grounding. ""There was nobody else in the wheelhouse to prompt the skipper"" (4.2.4). The absence of a second crew member in the wheelhouse to assist or provide a check on the skipper's actions is a failure in crew resource management (4.2.6).
","2.887","0.0","There is no specific mention of a failure to adhere to safety procedures as a contributing factor to the grounding in the provided document.
","0.0","0.0","There is no specific mention of organizational safety culture as a contributing factor to the grounding in the provided document.
","0.0","6.667","The operator's safety management system did not fully address the risk of vessel groundings and collisions where its skippers were effectively working alone in the wheelhouse. ""The following analysis considers the circumstances leading up to the grounding, and the safety issue that the operator's safety management system did not fully address the risk of vessel groundings and collisions"" (4.1.3). This indicates a shortfall in risk management and analysis.
","2.887","0.0","There is no specific mention of regulatory oversight and compliance as a contributing factor to the grounding in the provided document.
","0.0","30.0","The skipper lost situational awareness, which is a critical factor in the grounding. ""In human factors terms the skipper lost situational awareness, and did not realise that the vessel was navigating close to rocks until it ran aground on them"" (4.2.4). The lack of situational awareness directly contributed to the accident, as the skipper did not notice the vessel had moved into shallow waters (5.1).
","0.0","0.0","There is no specific mention of emergency response preparedness as a contributing factor to the grounding in the provided document.
","0.0","0.0","There is no specific mention of maintenance and inspection regimes as a contributing factor to the grounding in the provided document.
","0.0","0.0","There is no specific mention of the use of automation as a contributing factor to the grounding in the provided document.
","0.0","0.0","Weather was not a contributing factor to the grounding as it occurred ""in benign weather conditions"" (4.1.1).
","0.0","0.0","There is no specific mention of communication breakdown as a contributing factor to the grounding in the provided document.
","0.0","0.0","There are no additional safety themes identified in the provided document that contributed to the grounding of the Dolphin Seeker.","0.0","true","N/A"
