"2018_202","[9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16]","0.0","Insufficient information. The document does not provide any evidence that fatigue or alertness of the crew was a factor in the fire or the response to it.
","0.0","10.0","The crew's response to the fire was uncoordinated, and several crew members took their own courses of action instead of working together effectively. ""Several crew members took their own courses of action, with some proceeding to the engine room to manage the ammonia risk and others re-entering the accommodation space to continue attacking the fire on an individual basis"" (3.25). This indicates a breakdown in communication and crew resource management.
","0.0","16.667","Although the crew had received approved shore-based firefighting training, their response did not fully comply with company procedures and good industry practice. ""The crew’s response to the fire did not comply fully with company procedures and good industry practice"" (4.3). This suggests that training and preparedness for emergency procedures were not effectively applied during the incident.
","2.887","18.333","The fire-detection system did not function as expected, and the crew was unable to describe a routine regime for checking that all components of the fire alarm system were functional. ""The crew responsible for testing the fire alarm system explained that the fire alarms were 'tested', but they were unable to describe anything that resembled a routine regime for checking that all components of the fire alarm system were functional"" (3.14). This points to issues with maintenance procedures and compliance.
","2.887","20.0","The fire-detection system did not detect the fire or sound the general alarm, which delayed the firefighting response. ""During this fire the fire-detection system did not detect the fire or sound the general alarm"" (3.12). The failure of this system was a significant factor in the spread of the fire.
","0.0","10.0","Inconsistencies in the application of Maritime Rules Part 40D may have resulted in vessels not fully complying with relevant safety standards. ""Due to the inconsistency of how Maritime Rules Part 40D: Design, Construction and Equipment – Fishing Ships was applied to ships entered into the New Zealand Fishing Ship Register after 2004, there are up to 12 ships that likely do not meet the standards required of the rule"" (4.5). This indicates a problem with regulatory compliance and safety management.
","0.0","5.0","The crew's situational awareness was compromised as they did not close all doors and openings to the space where the fire was located, allowing the fire to spread rapidly. ""After the retreat from the initial attempts to make a direct attack on the fire, the cabin door was left open – so too was the door leading from the passageway to the open deck"" (3.22). This lack of situational awareness contributed to the severity of the fire.
","0.0","10.0","The structural fire integrity of the Dong Won 701 did not meet contemporary standards, which was a factor in the speed and intensity with which the fire spread. ""The structural fire integrity of the Dong Won 701, although complying with the relevant Maritime Rule, did not meet contemporary standards, and this was a factor in the speed and intensity with which the fire spread"" (4.4). The design and specifications of the equipment were therefore a contributing factor.
","0.0","5.0","There is no specific mention of risk assessment and management issues in the document. However, the failure to detect and respond to the fire effectively suggests that risk management practices may not have been adequate.
","0.0","5.0","The crew did not follow the emergency response plan effectively, and the fire response was not well-coordinated. ""The crew did not evacuate the vessel until ordered to do so by FENZ, and the master was unable to confirm that all his crew were safely off the vessel"" (3.21). This indicates issues with emergency response planning and coordination.
","0.0","0.0","Insufficient information. The document does not provide any evidence that distracted operation was a factor in the fire or the response to it.
","0.0","0.0","Insufficient information. The document does not provide any evidence that structural integrity or material fatigue was a factor in the fire or the response to it.
","0.0","0.0","Insufficient information. The document does not provide any evidence that human error and error management were factors in the fire or the response to it.
","0.0","0.0","Insufficient information. The document does not provide any evidence that safety culture and organizational influences were factors in the fire or the response to it.
","0.0","0.0","Insufficient information. The document does not provide any evidence that weather information dissemination and interpretation were factors in the fire or the response to it.","0.0","true","N/A"
